---
description: >-
  Here you can access a log of events, such as logins, updates, downloads,
  exports etc.
---

# Events

## Search

Use the **search** to **filter** all **events** (see below for a [list of all possible events](events.md#event-types)). The **options** mentioned below can be **combined** (except event ID). Simply select the search criteria and then hit "**Search**" and you will see the **results** in the middle pane. To **reset** your **filters**, click on "**Reset**".

When **searching**, you have the following **options**:

<table><thead><tr><th width="184.5">OPTION</th><th>DESCRIPTION</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Event ID</td><td>ID of the event.</td></tr><tr><td>Type</td><td>Type of the event. <a href="events.md#event-types">See below.</a></td></tr><tr><td>Date From</td><td>Select a date when the event should have occurred. If left empty, all events that occurred before the "Date To" will be shown.</td></tr><tr><td>Date To</td><td>Select a date when the event should have occurred. If left empty, all events that occurred after the "Date From" will be shown.</td></tr><tr><td>User Type</td><td>Select a user type to show all events that are connected to this user type. For a description of the user types, please refer to "<a href="permissions/user.md#user-types">User</a>".</td></tr><tr><td>User</td><td>Select a user to show all events that are connected to this user.</td></tr><tr><td>Group</td><td>Select a group to show all events that are connected to the group and the users of this group.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Events

In the **middle** pane, the **event results** will be **displayed** after searching. By **default**, the **newest** events are **displayed** at the **top**. You can **change** the **order** by clicking on the **column** **headers** (except column "Type"). If the search result exceeds **100** results, a **navigation** will be shown at the **bottom**. **Click** on an **event** to **view** all **details**.

Once **selected**, single **events** can be **deleted** by clicking on the **minus** button at the **bottom**. To **delete** **all** **events** from the search click on the button "**Delete Events**".

You can also **download** a **CSV file** with all **events** from the **search** by clicking on the button "**Download as CSV**".

## Event Details

On the **right**, all **details** of a **selected** **event** are **displayed**. The fields differ for each type.

## Event Types

The following **event types** exist:

<table><thead><tr><th width="227">INTERNAL NAME</th><th width="253">DISPLAY NAME</th><th>DESCRIPTION</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>BACKUP_DONE</td><td>Backup Done</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="backup-manager.md">database backup</a> was finished.</td></tr><tr><td>BACKUP_FAILED</td><td>Backup Failed</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="backup-manager.md">database backup</a> has failed.</td></tr><tr><td>BASE_CONFIG_UPDATE</td><td>Base Configuration Updated</td><td>The event is created each time the <a href="readme/">base configuration</a> was updated.</td></tr><tr><td>BASE_CONFIG_ERROR</td><td>Base Configuration Update Failed</td><td>The event is created each time there was an error when updating the <a href="readme/">base configuration</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>COLLECTION_DELETE</td><td>Collection Deleted</td><td>The event is created each time a user deleted a <a href="../for-users/quick-access/collections-and-presentations.md">collection</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>COLLECTION_INSERT</td><td>Collection Created</td><td>The event is created each time a user created a <a href="../for-users/quick-access/collections-and-presentations.md">collection</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>COLLECTION_UPDATE</td><td>Collection Updated</td><td>The event is created each time a user updated a <a href="../for-users/quick-access/collections-and-presentations.md">collection</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>CUSTOM_DATA_TYPE_UPDATER_DEBUG</td><td>Custom Data Type Updater Debug</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="../for-developers/customdata.md">Custom Datatype Updater</a> process was finished.</td></tr><tr><td>CUSTOM_DATA_TYPE_UPDATER_ERROR</td><td>Custom Data Type Updater Error</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="../for-developers/customdata.md">Custom Datatype Updater</a> process has failed.</td></tr><tr><td>DETAIL_VIEW</td><td>Detail View Opened</td><td>The event is created each time a user opened the detail view of a record.</td></tr><tr><td>EMAIL_SENT</td><td>Email Sent</td><td>The event is created each time an email was sent successfully.</td></tr><tr><td>EMAIL_SENT_FAILED</td><td>Sending Email Failed</td><td>The event is created each time sending an email failed.</td></tr><tr><td>EXPORT_START</td><td>Export Started</td><td>The event is created each time an export was started.</td></tr><tr><td>EXPORT_FINISH</td><td>Export Finished</td><td>The event is created each time an export finished successfully.</td></tr><tr><td>EXPORT_FINISH_EMPTY</td><td>Empty Export</td><td>The event is created each time an export finished successfully, but there were no exported records and files.</td></tr><tr><td>EXPORT_FAILED</td><td>Export Failed</td><td>The event is created each time an export failed.</td></tr><tr><td>EXPORT_TRANSPORT_FINISH</td><td>Transport of Export Finished</td><td>The event is created each time the transport of an export finished successfully.</td></tr><tr><td>EXPORT_TRANSPORT_FAILED</td><td>Transport of Export Failed</td><td>The event is created each time the transport of an export failed.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_DELETE</td><td>File Deleted</td><td>The event is created each time a file was removed from a record.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_DELETE_ERROR</td><td>File Deletion Failed</td><td>The event is created each time a file could not be removed from a record.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_DOWNLOAD</td><td>File Downloaded</td><td>The event is created each time a file was downloaded successfully.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_DOWNLOAD_ERROR</td><td>File Download Failed</td><td>The event is created each time there was an error when downloading a file.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_METADATA</td><td>Metadata Mapping Applied</td><td>The event is created each time the metadata was read from a file.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_METADATA_ERROR</td><td>Metadata Mapping Error</td><td>The event is created each time there was an error when trying to read metadata from a file.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_MOVE</td><td>Remote file was moved</td><td>The event is created each time a file was moved from a remote location to the local storage.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_MOVE_ERROR</td><td>Remote file move Error</td><td>The event is created each time there is an error when a file is moved from a remote location to the local storage.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_PRODUCE</td><td>File Version Produced</td><td>The event is created each time a version was created from a file.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_PRODUCE_ERROR</td><td>File Version Produce Error</td><td>The event is created each time there was an error when trying to create a version from a file.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_UPLOAD</td><td>File Uploaded</td><td>The event is created each time a file was uploaded using the `put` method successfully.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_UPLOAD_REMOTE</td><td>File Uploaded (rput)</td><td>The event is created each time a file was uploaded using the `rput` method successfully.</td></tr><tr><td>FILE_UPLOAD_ERROR</td><td>File Upload Error</td><td>The event is created each time there was an error when uploading a file.</td></tr><tr><td>FRONTEND_ERROR</td><td>Frontend Error</td><td>The event is created each time there was a frontend error.</td></tr><tr><td>GROUP_DELETE</td><td>Group Deleted</td><td>The event is created each time a user <a href="permissions/groups.md">group</a> was deleted.</td></tr><tr><td>GROUP_INSERT</td><td>Group Created</td><td>The event is created each time a new user <a href="permissions/groups.md">group</a> was created.</td></tr><tr><td>GROUP_UPDATE</td><td>Group Updated</td><td>The event is created each time a user <a href="permissions/groups.md">group</a> was updated.</td></tr><tr><td>INDEX_SWITCH</td><td>Index Switch</td><td>The event is created each time a new search index has been completed in the background and the current index was switched to the new index.</td></tr><tr><td>JANITOR</td><td>Janitor Run</td><td>The event is created each time a run of the <a href="readme/services.md">Janitor</a> was successful. Different Janitor runs have different tasks.</td></tr><tr><td>JANITOR_ERROR</td><td>Janitor Run Error</td><td>The event is created each time there was an error during a run of the Janitor.</td></tr><tr><td>LDAP_DEBUG</td><td>Login with LDAP</td><td>The event is created each time there was a login using <a href="readme/user-management.md#ldap">LDAP</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>LDAP_ERROR</td><td>LDAP Login Error</td><td>The event is created each time there was an error during a login attempt using LDAP.</td></tr><tr><td>LICENSE_VALIDATION_FAILED</td><td>License Validation Failed</td><td>The event is created each time the license which was supplied could not be validated.</td></tr><tr><td>LICENSE_EXPIRATION_EMAIL</td><td>License Expiration Mail Sent</td><td>The event is created each time an email about an expired license was sent.</td></tr><tr><td>MAPPING_DELETE</td><td>Metadata Mapping Deleted</td><td>The event is created each time a metadata mapping was deleted.</td></tr><tr><td>MAPPING_INSERT</td><td>Metadata Mapping Created</td><td>The event is created each time a new metadata mapping was created.</td></tr><tr><td>MAPPING_UPDATE</td><td>Metadata Mapping Updated</td><td>The event is created each time a metadata mapping was updated.</td></tr><tr><td>MESSAGE_DELETE</td><td>Message Deleted</td><td>The event is created each time a metadata mapping was deleted.</td></tr><tr><td>MESSAGE_INSERT</td><td>Message Created</td><td>The event is created each time a new message was created.</td></tr><tr><td>MESSAGE_UPDATE</td><td>Message Updated</td><td>The event is created each time a message was updated.</td></tr><tr><td>NOTIFICATION_SCHEDULER_FAILED</td><td>Notification scheduler failed</td><td>The event is created when there is an error during creation or sending of a scheduled notification.</td></tr><tr><td>OBJECT_DOWNLOAD</td><td>Record Download</td><td>The event is created each time a record was downloaded by a user.</td></tr><tr><td>OBJECTTYPE_UPDATE</td><td>Object Type Updated</td><td>The event is created each time an object type was updated.</td></tr><tr><td>OBJECT_DELETE</td><td>Record Deleted</td><td>The event is created each time a record was deleted.</td></tr><tr><td>OBJECT_INDEX</td><td>Record Indexed</td><td>The event is created each time a record was indexed.</td></tr><tr><td>OBJECT_INDEX_ERROR</td><td>Record Index failed</td><td>The event is created each time there was an error when a record is indexed.</td></tr><tr><td>OBJECT_INDEX_REQUEUE</td><td>Record Index requeued</td><td>The event is created each time there was an error when a record is indexed, and the index attempt is requeued to be tried again.</td></tr><tr><td>OBJECT_INSERT</td><td>Record Created</td><td>The event is created each time a new record was created.</td></tr><tr><td>OBJECT_UPDATE</td><td>Record Updated</td><td>The event is created each time a record was updated.</td></tr><tr><td>POOL_INSERT</td><td>Pool Created</td><td>The event is created each time a new <a href="permissions/pools.md">pool</a> was created.</td></tr><tr><td>POOL_UPDATE</td><td>Pool Updated</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="permissions/pools.md">pool</a> was updated.</td></tr><tr><td>POOL_DELETE</td><td>Pool Deleted</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="permissions/pools.md">pool</a> was deleted.</td></tr><tr><td>REINDEX_START</td><td>Reindex Started</td><td>The event is created each time a complete reindex of all base objects and records was started.</td></tr><tr><td>REINDEX_QUEUED</td><td>Reindex Queued</td><td>The event is created each time a complete reindex was queued to be started up later.</td></tr><tr><td>REINDEX_DONE</td><td>Reindex Finished</td><td>The event is created each time a complete reindex was finished.</td></tr><tr><td>REINDEX_ERROR</td><td>Reindex Error</td><td>The event is created each time a complete reindex has failed.</td></tr><tr><td>REINDEX_INDEX_PURGED</td><td>Index Purged After Reindex</td><td>The event is created each time a complete reindex was finished, and after the indices were switched, the old index was deleted.</td></tr><tr><td>SAML_DEBUG</td><td>Login with SAML</td><td>The event is created each time there was a login using <a href="readme/user-management.md#saml">SAML</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>SAML_ERROR</td><td>Error during Login with SAML</td><td>The event is created each time there was an error during a login attempt using SAML.</td></tr><tr><td>SEARCH</td><td>Search</td><td>The event is created each time a search was made.</td></tr><tr><td>TAG_DELETE</td><td>Tag Deleted</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="permissions/tags-and-workflows.md#tags">tag</a> was deleted.</td></tr><tr><td>TAG_INSERT</td><td>Tag Created</td><td>The event is created each time a new <a href="permissions/tags-and-workflows.md#tags">tag</a> was created.</td></tr><tr><td>TAG_UPDATE</td><td>Tag Updated</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="permissions/tags-and-workflows.md#tags">tag</a> was updated.</td></tr><tr><td>TRANSITION_DELETE</td><td>Workflow Deleted</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="permissions/tags-and-workflows.md#workflows">workflow</a> was deleted.</td></tr><tr><td>TRANSITION_INSERT</td><td>Workflow Created</td><td>The event is created each time a new <a href="permissions/tags-and-workflows.md#workflows">workflow</a> was created.</td></tr><tr><td>TRANSITION_UPDATE</td><td>Workflow Updated</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="permissions/tags-and-workflows.md#workflows">workflow</a> was updated.</td></tr><tr><td>USER_LOGIN</td><td>User Logged In</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="permissions/user.md">user</a> logged in.</td></tr><tr><td>USER_LOGOUT</td><td>User Logged Out</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="permissions/user.md">user</a> logged out.</td></tr><tr><td>USER_DELETE</td><td>User Deleted</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="permissions/user.md">user</a> was deleted.</td></tr><tr><td>USER_INSERT</td><td>User Created</td><td>The event is created each time a new <a href="permissions/user.md">user</a> was created.</td></tr><tr><td>USER_UPDATE</td><td>User Updated</td><td>The event is created each time a <a href="permissions/user.md">user</a> was updated.</td></tr></tbody></table>
