for-system-administrators/installation/linux-docker-compose/execserver-on-another-linux.md, before:

---
description: How to spread one fylr over two linux servers
---

# execserver on another linux

This is a variation over the main installation method in [here](../linux-docker-compose.md#installation). So we will concentrate on the differences.

## On the system with the execserver

(We call that system _exec_.example.com here and the other one: _main_.example.com)

* ensure that only _main_.example.com is allowed to reach port 8083 on _exec_.example.com (firewall, or private IP address, etc.)
* use a `fylr.yml` like this: (which disables all parts except execserver)

```
fylr+:
  logger+:
    timeFormat: "2006-01-02 15:04:05Z07"

  db:

  plugin:

  elastic:

  execserver: # no need to configure the client here, as this flyr is the execserver

  services+:
    execserver+: # this is the execserver
      # all: delete failed jobs, for preserving disk space. done: keep failed jobs, for debugging
      jobRemovalPolicy: done
      addr: :8083

    api:

    backend:

    webapp:

```

* use such a `docker-compose.yml` : (no postgreSQL, no Indexer)

```
services:
  fylr:
    image: docker.fylr.io/fylr/fylr:latest
    hostname: fylr.localhost
    container_name: fylr
    restart: always
    ports:
      - "8083:8083" # access for main fylr
    networks:
      - fylr
    volumes:
      - "/srv/fylr/config/fylr:/fylr/config"
    logging:
      driver: "journald"

networks:
  fylr:
```

* About backups: You will have no permanent data on this system, like: no assets, no database. Just a bit of configuration.

## On the system without the execserver

(We call that system _main_.example.com here and the other one: _exec_.example.com)

* ensure that only _exec_.example.com is allowed to reach port 8080 and 8081 on _main_.example.com (firewall, or private IP address, etc.)
* use a `fylr.yml` with these changes, the rest remains as in [the default installation](../linux-docker-compose.md#installation):

```
[...]
  execserver:
    addresses:
      - http://exec.example.com:8083/?pretty=true
    parallel: 18
    parallelHigh: 10
    pluginJobTimeoutSec: 2400
    connectTimeoutSec: 120
    callbackBackendInternalURL: "http://main.example.com:8081"
    callbackApiInternalURL: "http://main.example.com:8080"

  services+:
    execserver: # this empty yaml branch with no leaves disables the execserver

[...]
```

* use a `docker-compose.yml` with these changes, the rest remains as in [the default installation](../linux-docker-compose.md#installation):

```
  fylr:
[...]
    ports:
      - "8080:8080" # fylr api
      - "8081:8081" # fylr backend
[...]
```

Commit message:

GITBOOK-464: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

for-system-administrators/installation/linux-docker-compose/execserver-on-another-linux.md, after:

---
description: How to spread one fylr over two linux servers
---

# execserver on another linux

This is a variation over the main installation method in [here](../linux-docker-compose.md#installation). So we will concentrate on the differences.

## Goal

1. One server with only the "execserver" part of fylr, which will be doing the heavy lifting of processing assets, for example generating preview thumbnails. So it should have some CPU cores.\
   We call this one _**exec**_.example.com, here.
2. One server with all the other parts of fylr, doing Webfrontend, SQL, Indexing, etc.. \
   We call this one _**main**_.example.com, here.

## On the system with the execserver

(We call this system _exec_.example.com)

* ensure that only _main_.example.com is allowed to reach port 8083 on _exec_.example.com (firewall, or private IP address, etc.)
* use a `fylr.yml` like this: (which disables all parts except execserver)

```
fylr+:
  logger+:
    timeFormat: "2006-01-02 15:04:05Z07"

  db:

  plugin:

  elastic:

  execserver: # no need to configure the client here, as this flyr is the execserver

  services+:
    execserver+: # this is the execserver
      # all: delete failed jobs, for preserving disk space. done: keep failed jobs, for debugging
      jobRemovalPolicy: done
      addr: :8083

    api:

    backend:

    webapp:

```

* use such a `docker-compose.yml` : (no postgreSQL, no Indexer)

```
services:
  fylr:
    image: docker.fylr.io/fylr/fylr:latest
    hostname: fylr.localhost
    container_name: fylr
    restart: always
    ports:
      - "8083:8083" # access for main fylr
    networks:
      - fylr
    volumes:
      - "/srv/fylr/config/fylr:/fylr/config"
    logging:
      driver: "journald"

networks:
  fylr:
```

* About backups: You will have no permanent data on this system, like: no assets, no database. Just a bit of configuration.

## On the system without the execserver

(We call this system _main_.example.com)

* ensure that only _exec_.example.com is allowed to reach port 8080 and 8081 on _main_.example.com (firewall, or private IP address, etc.)
* use a `fylr.yml` with these changes, the rest remains as in [the default installation](../linux-docker-compose.md#installation):

```
[...]
  execserver:
    addresses:
      - http://exec.example.com:8083/?pretty=true
    parallel: 18
    parallelHigh: 10
    pluginJobTimeoutSec: 2400
    connectTimeoutSec: 120
    callbackBackendInternalURL: "http://main.example.com:8081"
    callbackApiInternalURL: "http://main.example.com:8080"

  services+:
    execserver: # this empty yaml branch with no leaves disables the execserver

[...]
```

* use a `docker-compose.yml` with these changes, the rest remains as in [the default installation](../linux-docker-compose.md#installation):

```
  fylr:
[...]
    ports:
      - "8080:8080" # fylr api
      - "8081:8081" # fylr backend
[...]
```
