
# Release v6.30.2

Published 2026-03-17 11:17:01Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.30.2/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.30.2_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.30.2/fylr_v6.30.2_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.30.2_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.30.2/fylr_v6.30.2_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.30.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.30.2/fylr_v6.30.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.30.2_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.30.2/fylr_v6.30.2_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Improved

* **/api/task**: Relax check for missing search parameters. When checking that a
search is set for a task requiring it, relax the check to allow an empty search
array alongside with a set objecttype array. Do not allow search and objecttype
both to be empty. [5d435cf74]
* **/api/oai**: Removed unused namespaces declared in XML response for verb
  _ListMetadataFormats_. [d773e95e9]
* **/inspect/objects**: Links to test **IIIF-Viewers** and deep links now use
  the `uuid`-based `/api/object` URL, so that configurations where the base
  config doesn't allow `id`-based deep links still work.
* **Indexer**: This patch indexes the terms with a lower priority than objects.
  With this, objects are indexed as quickly as possible after saving. [2c595e60d]
* **Go 1.26**: **fylr** is now built using the latest
  [Go](https://go.dev/blog/go1.26). [914b8a757] [7da9dbcba] [d4f0398aa]

### Fixed

* **Startup**: In scenarios where dynamic recipes require a new plugin or version
of the plugin to be installed, **fylr** would fail to access the backend while
filling the cache (with a dead lock). The backend endpoints now mostly skip the
cache as they don't need it. [cef65ed19] [c88890d0f] [ba9441f90] [a949fb4c0]
* **/api/search**: If wildcard only appear in the middle of searches we ignore
  this now. Since `6.30.0` a `WildcardOnlyNotAllowed` error was raised.
  [1c5bb49c4]
* **/api/export**: Fixed downloads with metadata written. For bigger files it
  could happen that **fylr** delivered corrupted files. [267070fa6]
* **/api/task[delete_objects]**: Fixed deleting mixed object types using
  `setnull`. In certain combinations **fylr** would try to set links to null for
  already deleted objects. [5db9edfb0]

## Frontend

### Improved
* **Search Popover**: Several aspects of the Search Popover behavior in the **task modules** have been improved. The search popover now allows selecting Objecttypes even if they do not have records in the system (important for creating searches that target OTs which will contain content in the future).

* **Show Deleted Objects Checkbox**: The new checkbox included in the search popover for Delete Tasks now displays only deleted files. Previously, both deleted and non-deleted files were shown.

### Fixed
* **Search Param in Tasks**: Fixed an issue where the Objecttypes configured in a search within the task modules were not saved correctly. This caused all Objecttypes to be affected by the search and could also produce a server error when validating some tasks such as the Delete Task.

* **Delete Task**: Fixed the creation of this task from the search or from the collections context menu.

* **Search Type Selector**: Fixed a bug that prevented the Search Type Selector from updating correctly when switching to Trash mode in the search popover.

* **Tasks List**: Fixed the width of the Status column in the background tasks list.

* **Collection Field**: Fixed the CSS of the Collection field in the expert search.

* **Delete Objects**: A bug has been fixed when attempting to delete groups of objects that are related to each other through linked objects. It could lead to a situation where objects were being deleted that had already been removed because they were linked objects of another object.