
# Release v6.31.1

Published 2026-04-21 13:11:59Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.31.1/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.31.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.31.1/fylr_v6.31.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.31.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.31.1/fylr_v6.31.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.31.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.31.1/fylr_v6.31.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.31.1_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.31.1/fylr_v6.31.1_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### New

* **/api/eas & Hotfolder**: Support **hierarchical linked object** linking. With
  this an uploaded folder structure (as uploaded into a collection) can be
  turned into links into a hierarchical object type. [a379c9db2] [4c89b2ab1]
  [7ca1d8954] [34978db2e] [0ec0c92af]
* **/api/eas**: Added new query parameter `filenames`. This allows frontends to
  send a patch alongside with a filename to make use of the new feature to link
  to **hierarchical linked objects**. [726f3408e]

### Improved

* **Zoomer**: Support `WEBP` extension. Now files ending `.webp` will publish a
  `iiif_url` and `zoom_url`. The zoomer will still produce `JPG` tiles, but it
  can do it from `WEBP` files now too. [112cbb0c1]
* **System Rights**: Re-ordered frontend features rights. [19a4b204b]
* **File Worker**: Add DPI parameter to recipe `browserthumbs`. Also, lowered
  log severity for actions from `INF` to `DBG` level. [80b27dae5]
* **/api/collection**: Don't require a PIN from owner. Before this patch,
  **fylr** would require the **pin for a collection** also from the owner of the
  collection. This was wrong. It was already allowed for users carrying the
  `BAG_ACL` right, but the owner check was omitted. [f53a3fd73]
* **fylr backup**: Backup & restore plugins before anything else. With this
  patch the plugins are output before any other objects. This fixes problem with
  mapping which couldn't be imported because they require a plugin to be
  enabled. [f4d8e1cde]

### Fixed

* **/api/eas & Hotfolder**: Index collection after new file injects. This fixes
  a missing `OBJECT_INDEX` event which caused the frontend to not properly
  update collection counts and collection detail if objects were added via
  Hotfolder or `/api/eas`. Also, fixed a case where updates didn't work with a
  datamodel using reverse objects. [18a02488e] [9a4b37c26] [6c9f74e4a]
* **/api/search[aggregations]**: Aggregations of first level **polyhierarchical
  objects** are fixed. Thisd requires a manual re-index for affected instances.
  [20ed1a992]
* **Watermarking & Caption**: Reverted _Imagemagick_ induced change in watermark
  & caption rendering. The bug in _Imagemagick_ which triggered this has been
  fixed in Debian `forky` (this is what we are using in the **fylr** Docker
  image). The patch in 6.31.0 caused problems on **Windows**. [6b17105c4]
* **/api/config**: Fixed missing access to path containing special characters:
  `. | # @ \ * ! ? [ ] { } ( )`. Some of these characters were supported already
  before. [eda44eb3e]
* **/api/group**: Index all users if `_auth_method_group_maps` is used. If a
 group uses this, we must re-index all users when that group is saved. Before,
 this was not done, so the indexed user were not correct in cases where e.g. a
 group assigned itself to all users. [4e21bf430]
* **/api/db**: Fixed parallel access for `db_pre_save` plugins. If a
  `db_pre_save plugin` would access `api/db`, fylr would dead lock due to
  impossible lock acquire. Fixed by trying to get the lock, and sleeping 10ms
  before trying the next time. [28d08e877]
* **/api/oai**: Avoid **xslt error** for empty sets. If an OAI set is empty
  (using ListRecords), the XSLT sheet conversion would eventually fail because
  it was fed no data. This fix doesn't call the XSLT sheet if there is no
  records found in the set. [6d42e4288]

## Frontend

### New
 * **Collection Upload** : Adds support in the collection upload configuration for the new **hierarchical linked object** property. This new functionality allows mapping a directory to a hierarchy of linked objects. See backend notes for more information.
 * **Directory Drop**: We have added support for drag and drop of directories in fylr. This works both in collection upload and in the new editor modal. This functionality allows the user to drop a directory (which can include subdirectories) with assets, and all assets will be uploaded to the app.

### Fixed
* **Group Default Frontend Pref**: Fixed the functionality to configure default preferences for users in groups. This feature was not working correctly and users never received the default prefs.
* **Quick Access Objecttypes**: Fixed the construction of the hierarchy for polyhierarchical object types configured to appear in quick access. Before this patch, values could appear with completely incorrect hierarchies.
 * **BG Task From Collection**: Fixed the creation of Background tasks from **search collections**.
 * **Base config**: Fixed how default values are displayed in multiline fields in the base config. They now follow the same pattern as other textual fields, showing the default value as a placeholder.
 * **CSS**: General CSS fixes have been applied.
 * **Expert Search Filter**: Fixed a bug that hid the modifier buttons (has value / without value) for nested tables when using the expert search filter.
 * **Unsaved change Dialog**: Fixed a bug that caused the unsaved changes dialog to require confirmation twice in some managers. Additionally, the message has been improved in certain managers for this dialog.
  * **Menu list Tooltips**: Fixed a bug where tooltips in menus were not displayed correctly.