
# Release v6.2.5

We are happy to announce the latest release of **fylr**. There have been tons of bug fixes and improvements, some of which require a reindex to be run. Head to `/inspect/system/` to start the reindex after updating.

### Highlights

* **The introduction of an object cache speeds up generation of facets by factor 3 in some scenarios.**
* **New data type `double` support full floating point numbers.**

### New

* Baseconfig allows to configure a signature for all system mails.
* Baseconfig allows to configure an info text for the register page.
* Support new data type `double`. This type is an IEEE-754 64-bit floating-point number
* Baseconfig allows to setup oauth2 clients.
* `GET /api/event` supports searching by `object_id`.
* `POST /api/collection/objects` endpoint was missing from easydb 5 API.
* `POST /api/db` checks read permissions on all inserts and updates for all linked objects.

### Improved

* The utility `fylr_copy` is not needed any more. Its configuration should be removed
* Missing utilites, even if configured in fylr.yml, like fylr_copy, do not cause fylr startup to fail any more.
* Baseconfig has been restructured for readability.
* Speed up /api/eas/download permission checks.
* Data model: Check for duplicate mask and object type names.
* Faster standard rendering by introducing an object cache. Needs reindex for an initial setup.
* `POST /api/collection`: Support setting `uuid` via API.
* Permission checks for bi-directional updates on the other object.
* `POST /api/search/parse`: Query parser produces flatter Elastic queries for long OR and AND chains, before long chains could easily trigger Elastic nested query limits.
* Include `_collections` in format `standard`, same as easydb 5. This fixed removing objects from collection using the context menu.
* Removed `POST /api/eas` bulk api. This API was used by `fylr restore` and is now superseded by `POST /api/eas/rput` together with the new url parameter `generate_metdata=false` which skips metadata generation enabling fast restores for migrations.
* Baseconfig suggest now a reindex if the languages were changed.
* Collection sharing: Added Windows Explorer compatible URL suggestions in upload configuration dialog.
* Custom data type updater now supports merging of custom data (via the same `UUID` or same data).
* File management now supports a `remote_delete_url` which is called by **fylr** when a remote file can be deleted.
* File management introduces a `move` command which can be started from /inspect/files. The command moves files from remote URLs into local storage. This can be useful for migrations where disk space is scarce.
* Improved fylr startup, don't stop on programs which didn't pass the startup test, this can be now check in `/inspect/system/execserver`.
* Unset loca keys are now replaced by the value of language `en-US`, or if that is unset by the first language set found in the order of the CSV sheet columns.
* Changed names of all basetype events for `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`. They are now prefixed by the name of the base type rather than the too generic `OBJECT`. `OBJECT` is still the prefix for user model changes.
* Improved Windows README.
* Changes standard rendering to use the render rule for before the value and not as it was in prior versions (including easydb 5) for after the value.
* Show created date in detail & editor. The `/api/db` and `/api/search` have been extended to output `_created` for formats `long` and `long_inheritance`.

### Fixed

* GPS Location is now correctly read into technical metadata. Re-sync to fix existing files.
* Backup / restore work more reliably now. Started to migrate some of the settings of base config of easydb 5, such as database languages. That is a prerequisite to successfully import user profiles with languages other than `de-DE` or `en-US`.
* Webdav: Support setting of pool in reverse objects.
* Collection: Fixed multiple external anonymous shares.
* Objectstore: Support for some objectstore schema configurations has been fixed.
* Multiple open browser windows were broken since `v6.2.4` and are now working again. The frontend got quite confused when working with multiple windows, because fylr used on session token cookie which was used in all windows alike.
* PDF preview generation fixed for our internal viewer. Re-sync to fix existing files.
* Custom data type updater fixed to actually read back updated data.
* `/api/group`: Added missing support for `frontend_prefs`.
* `POST /api/db`: Support `lookup:_id` together with `_version:auto_increment`.