
# Release v6.6.3

Published 2023-09-28 13:50:44Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.6.3/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.6.3_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.6.3/fylr_v6.6.3_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.6.3_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.6.3/fylr_v6.6.3_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.6.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.6.3/fylr_v6.6.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.6.3_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.6.3/fylr_v6.6.3_windows_amd64.zip)

This release is a bugfix release. It adds back some patches from 6.6.1 which where lost when we published 6.6.2:

* If `pdftotext` returns an error while parsing text from PDF documents, this error is now stored as the full text information of the PDF. It is a common error that no text can be extracted for secured PDF. Before errors would have the metadata production fail and thus the whole produce chain would stop executing, not producing any thumbnails or other previews.
* Setting up the automatic environment for helper programs called by programs which are actually configured in `fylr.services.execserver` failed for configurations where programs in `fylr.services.execserver.commands` were configured with relative or absolute path names (and not just with the program name). In `v6.6.0` the `FYLR_CMD_*` environment variables can still be set manually to avoid this problem.
* Adjusted timeouts for pdf and video recipes to 1 hour; was 15 and 30 minutes, resp.
* **/api/schema**: When sending pre-defined column-ids for `reverse_link` and `link` types, they would be ignored, leading to sync problems with centrally stored data models.
 * **/api/schema**: When sending pre-defined column-ids for `reverse_link` and `link` types, they would be ignored, leading to sync problems with centrally stored data models.

## New

* **/api/baseconfig**: Use location names for default locations instead of the ID. We are doing this for better support of backup & restore where we cannot use IDs.

## Improved

* **/api/plugin/manage: This patch adds `created_at`, `updated_at` and `last_checked_at` dates.

## Fixes

* The patch fixes a problem which happened when the **exec server if busy** and no free worker can be found. Instead of re-queueing the job, we errored out with an error message `Error producing file: %!w(<nil>)`. Fixed by passing the correct error. Now, in case of an re-queueable error, the job is put back into the queue and tried in + 1 minute.
* **/eas/rput**: Improved filename detection. If a filename did not have a proper extension, we would try to find it by using a HEAD request to the remote file and take our best guess about the file type. The Docker images we delivered however, did not contain the proper mime type detection files, so that file types like `image/tiff` would not be recognised.
* Some cache update race problems have been fixed. In rare cases the cache IDs would not be updated properly. This patch overall improves the cache management for plugin bundles.