
# Release v6.7.3

Published 2023-11-14 15:08:08Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.7.3/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.7.3_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.7.3/fylr_v6.7.3_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.7.3_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.7.3/fylr_v6.7.3_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.7.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.7.3/fylr_v6.7.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.7.3_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.7.3/fylr_v6.7.3_windows_amd64.zip)

## Release v6.7.3

This release is a maintenance release which improves the reliability of *fylr* and fixes some important bugs. It also adds more features to **/inspect/files**. Also in this release is the support of the file extension **JFIF**.

## New

* Support **JFIF** file format. This format is essentially a JPEG with more fixed configuration. This change adds recognition for **.jfif** extensions.
* Base config: The **login info text** now allows **Markdown** format. With this, the information for the user on the login page can be formatted with basic attributes like **bold** and _italics_. 
* **/inspect/migration**: Add a new feature to the restore to **link versions** from the source and do not produce them in the restored instance. Also, add `--upload-ignore-files-with-errors` to make the restore more robust.

## Improved

* **/inspect/files** got some new buttons and a clean-up. Also, duplicate entries when searching for _parents_ and _children_ are now removed. A new feature allows to resync all files found in a search. Because of that the pre-defined searches for "Original in status done" and "Files in error state" have been removed. For **status** and **version** pulldowns we added the current database counts. The **version** pulldown allows to filter for **original** now.
* **Faster file workers**: reduce clipping path metadata check. fylr metadata is not compiling **has_clipping_path** any more by default. The new parameter `--clipping-path` will tell it to run `magick identify` in order to determine whether a **TIFF** has a clipping path or not. The recipes for image conversion have been adapted to only ask "fylr convert" to `--clip` if the conversion is **TIFF** -> **PNG**. Before this was also done for other **TIFF** -> * conversions, but since we are cropping background it really only makes sense for **PNG** target.
* Show a better error message if **fylr** doesn't start due to a misconfigured license file.
* **/inspect/migration**: Add a checkbox to use `--link-versions` for fylr restore. With this, versions can be **linked from the source** and do not need to be produced by the restored instance, this is a helpful feature for test migrations.

## Fixed

* **Login of guests** has been fixed.
* **Distorted colors** of downloaded files in *RGB* format with applied color profile have been fixed.
* **PDF** file worker now uses the configured temporary working directory in the exec server and no longer the OS temp dir.
* **fylr restore --continue** now remembers ids of restored metadata mappings. This avoids an error which occurred while restoring collections with mappings (with the use of --continue).

## Web Frontend

* A **new search field** has been added in the expert search to search for text in the field **metadata_fulltext** of assets, allowing searches within the text of documents if it has been indexed.
* **Number inputs** with default values in the **base config** are now displayed correctly, using placeholders.
* A new option has been added when **printing PDFs** to include the **change history** of objects at the end of the PDF.
* Corrections have been made to the **filter panel** in the main search.
* Corrections have been made to the "individual pools" option in the collections configuration.
* The representation of **wildcard searches** in the query badges of the main search has been fixed.
* **Sharing searches** via URL has been corrected, now all search parameters are transferred correctly.
* Error handling has been improved in the datamodel section when using **objectstore**.
* A check has been added when using the **CSV importer** to import **hierarchical objects**; if a parent is specified and does not exist, the user will be notified.
* An error has been fixed when using lookup:id in the **JSON importer** in objects that contain assets configured by URLs.
* A bug where multimedia playback was not stopped correctly in **fullscreen mode** when changing objects has been fixed.
* Now, when changing objects in **fullscreen mode**, the selection in the main search will change according to the object being viewed and the search view will be scrolled to the selected object.
* Fixed a bug where files with filetypes not recognized by fylr could not be downloaded. Now, these files can be downloaded and exported in their original version.

