
# Release v6.8.0

Published 2023-12-14 14:44:53Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.8.0/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.8.0_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.8.0/fylr_v6.8.0_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.8.0_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.8.0/fylr_v6.8.0_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.8.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.8.0/fylr_v6.8.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.8.0_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.8.0/fylr_v6.8.0_windows_amd64.zip)

## Release 6.8.0

## Important

* If you are using a custom file worker configuration with the recipe `imageconverter:reformat`, you need to switch that to `imageconverter:browserthumbs` (see below).
* We stopped shipping the **embedded resource files** in our download packages. Use the new `fylr resource --copy` command to access embedded resources instead.
* This release deletes all **OAUTH2 tokens**. So a re-login will be required for all users after update.
* **Re-index is advised.** We changed some base mappings, so it is advised to run re-index. Use **/inspect/system** for that.

## New

* **/api/search**: Support `user._last_seen_at` in index.
* **/api/db**: Support column types `number` and `integer.2` in `lookup:_id`.
* **All file urls are now signed** with an _HMAC_ signature. Using that, we can save time during the file request by skipping the rights management. Url signature have an expiration which can be adjusted in the base config. **/api/search** and **/api/db** support a new query parameter `file_url_expire=DAYS`. Setting this to `0` causes the Urls to not be signed (that is the old behaviour). For extensible Urls like `iiif_url` and `zoom_url` the signature is part of the path. In addition to passing the signature in the url parameter, clients can choose to pass the signature (`x-fylr-signature` removed from the query parameter to make use of a browser local cache) in the http header `x-fylr-signature` of the request. 
* **/api/db**: Support modifier `:append` to add additional text to text fields. Values are concatenated to existing values, if the records don't contain a value yet, it is created.
* **PUT /api/collection/list**: New endpoint to support fast collection injection. Before this was a single item API and only for `GET` we supported multiple collections. This is used in `fylr restore` to speed up restores of collections.
* **POST /eas/put**, **POST /eas/rput** and **POST /eas/ID** support a new parameter `custom_version_config`. With this parameter `JSON` can be sent to overlay configuration used for the **file production recipes**. Standard produce configuration is set in the base config (or per default settings). Now, this parameters allows a per-file overwrite and extension of the produce parameters. Using this for videos, the recipe parameter `video-thumb-select` can be set to select a certain timestamp to produce the video preview thumbnail.
* **POST /api/eas**: New url parameter `permission_check_only` allows to check if the current user is allowed to use that endpoint. Is essentially running the same permission check as it does if a payload body is received.
* **DELETE search/point_in_time**: New endpoint to remove point in time snapshots of the search. This endpoint uses the same payload as for [**OpenSearch**](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/searching-data/point-in-time-api/#delete-pits).
* **Resource overloading**: A new overlay feature allows to merge mount external resources for `fylr.resources` and `fylr.services.webapp.path`. Files present in the external resources take precedence over fylr embedded files. With this it is possible to inject and overwrite selected files only without needing to copy and maintain a full resource folder outside fylr.  `fylr resources` was added to manage embedded files and the overlayfs. You can use it to dump embedded files from fylr to disk as a starting point to work with local resources or webfrontend.
* **Load all cookbooks from recipe folder**:  With this it is possible to inject external recipes using an overlayed resource.
* New config `fylr.logger.wrongPasswordLevel`: This set the log level for the wrong password message. It also include remote addr of the requester.
* **ICC color profiles**: Support color profile in image thumbnail recipe "browerthumbs". With this it is possible to configure color profiles in the the file worker configuration. Also, added a place to upload own color profiles in base config. `colorprofile` is also supported for custom rendering using `GET /api/eas/download`.
* **/api/export**: New `file_metadata` parameter to include all metadata of file data in XML and JSON exports.
* New option for metadata profiles:  `deep_link_url` allows to embed a deep link url to the exporter file version where the metadata is written too.
* **POST /api/db?dry_run=1**: New query parameter added. This new parameter allows to execute the json unmarshal & plugin steps without actually saving the object. No data is written.
* Allow `--clip` to be switch on/off in the `image:browserthumbs` recipe. **The `reformat` recipe was removed**. If you are using a custom file worker configuration which uses that recipe, you need to switch to `browserthumbs` after update and set `size` to _0_.
* **/api/settings**: Endpoint was extended to show all capabilities available with the current license.

## Improved

* For files, always output `"eas": { "1": [] }`. Before in some cases we would output `"eas": { "1": null }`.
* **/api/pool**: Support setting a new `_id_parent`. This has been supported before, but only half-baked. Now it is fully supported, with re-indexing of all affected objects.
* **eas/download**: Add trace log with storage url requested for io.Copy. During a bug hunt for an interrupted file delivery we noticed that there is not output of the actual url requested from the storage backend. Added this in trace level, so in situations like this debugging is easier. The bug mentioned turned out to be a network problem outside fylr's scope. 
* `_path[]._standard.1.eas`: In such renderings, only render first file. This helps reducing the size of the `JSON` for heavy `_standard.eas` objects. Multiple eas objects in `_path` should not really be needed for frontends, so we do not need to output them.
* **Collection Sharing**: The sharing email now mentions the sharing user name.
* A new environment variable `FYLR_CONVERT_VIDEO_MP4_THREADS` can be used to limit the number of cores which `ffmpeg` uses during encoding.
* `fylr convert` got a new `--video-ffmpeg-params` which can be used to fine tune the video encoding by ffmpeg. This is available in the recipe `video:resize`.
* `fylr.services.webapp.reverseProxy.custom`: Also match the scheme for the custom reverse proxy config. Before the source scheme was ignored.
* Improvements to `fylr backup` and `fylr restore`.
* Fixed & improvements for emails, login and register pages.
* **/inspect/files** got a new select for `extension`. This page also got a lot faster by an improved loading technique.
* **/api/export/list**: Optimise file loading so that bigger exports list load a lot quicker.
* **File loading got faster**: Using a cache column `technical_metadata`, file loading is much faster in places. Especially if data bases contain files with lots of metadata this new cache column improves loading speeds for objects containing such files as well es lowers the memory pressure caused by fylr significantly. In our tests, the data read from the database was reduced to a tenth of the original size (8 MB -> 800 KB). The initial update for that column can take a while during fylr startup.
* Plugins can now use full file data during `db_pre_save` callbacks. With this it is possible that code in a formula plugin accesses available file information.
* Janitor for session tokens: A new janitor for session tokens cleans up `oauth2_tokens` table. This table can grow huge overtime and fylr hadn't cleaned that up in prior versions. The migration step for this release deletes all **OAUTH2 tokens**. So a re-login will be required for all users after update.
* **/api/user**: Support for more columns to search and sort on: `state`, `_last_seen_at`. **Requires a re-index**.
* Changes the **recipe replacements** `%_source.metadata._technical_metadata.KEY%` to `%_source.technical_metadata.KEY%`. Before we supported replacements of all metadata, but that was unused by our recipes.

## Fixed

* **Rightsmanagement**: Checking the `standard` mask for pool rights was not implemented correctly. fylr would use the **`standard` mask for the pool** in which the right was defined, and not the pool in which the right was used.
* **/api/search**: Fixed wildcard search on analysed fields. If a string "*02-abc-def*" was used on an analysed field the splitting, normalising and putting the search together would fail and end up with an empty search, matching all objects. This case was implemented only for strings which yield only one token and otherwise the wrong empty search token was produced.
* Fixed a **cache race problem** which prevented **Sqlite** backends from purging properly.
* Improved callback impact from Plugins to the API when using **Sqlite**. **Sqlite** only supports one writer, so any write transactions during a plugin call are impossible. This patch does not write the users browser language if unnecessary.
* **/api/objects**: Fix `IIIF` & `HTML` formats for models with reverse. When reverse was included in objects for `IIIF` or `HTML` rendering, fylr would panic with "langs not set".
* **/api/db**: Fixed `lookup:_id` for changed column types. In certain situations with column types changed (e.g. from loca text to normal text), a consecutive lookup could cause a panic and fail. 
* **Video files**: If `ffmpegthumbnailer` isn't available (like on Windows), videos which are not seek-able failed to produce a thumbnail. Fixed this by using `ffmpeg` with a fallback to a fixed early frame selection if an error occurs during the "significant change in scene" selection.
* Formatting of MM/YYYY dates in some locales has been fixed.
* **Use the fylr system console** for Indexer logging. If `fylr.elastic.logger` was set, the log was directly written to Stderr instead of using our wrapper to pass it to the **/inspect/system/console**.
* Export: Fixed transports which contain deleted user's emails.
* **Startup**:  If a language _und_ is set without explicitly setting region, date and time format, we would error at startup during base mapping index creation. This is now fixed by setting default languages in such a case. The error is still there and can be found in the logs.
* **Remote Addr**: Use `x-forwarded-for` http header to find the address the request is originating from. In most setup this fixes the IP based group filter. This should fix cases where the group ip filter doesn't work because of a reverse proxy sitting in front of the fylr api service. Even fylr's own reverse proxy didn't get this right and changed the ip address for the group filter to the local callback address.
 * **/api/search**: Fixed sorting of standard info. This was broken in some cases and errored out with a "painless script error" in OpenSearch backends.
 *  **Callback `db_pre_save`**: Improved read back data from plugins. This new code fixes a case where we did not catch an aborted connection from the execserver, cause the returned JSON looked perfectly fine. For some reason the error which is send after the JSON as plain text never makes it to the client. Using an io.ReadAll AFTER the json encoding fixes the problem as we receive an err from that func "unexpected EOF".
* Improved & fixed cases in Import-XML-Mapping.
* **Windows**: Fixed a bug when logging in via ldap with "log steps" enabled in the base config. If the **ldap entry contained a NUL** character, fylr would panic and login would be denied.
* **/api/pool**: Do not update `is_system_pool`. The previous versions would set `is_system_pool` to false even if a system pool was stored. This will be fixed by a migration step. System pool **system:root**, **system:standard**, **system:none** will be set back to `is_system_pool: true` in case they had been changed.

## Plugins

## fylr-plugin-formula-column

* Fixed writing events if the code contained an UTF-8 character like "€".
