tutorials/pdf-creator.md, before:

---
description: How to set up pdf creation in fylr, including plugin installation.
---

# PDF Creator

{% hint style="info" %}
The "PDF Creator" plugin is licensed as a separate module. Please check your license agreement in case of doubt.
{% endhint %}

### Install the plugin

1. Got to **Plugin-Manager** and if there is no **Server PDF Plugin** yet, press the **+** button at the bottom:

![](../.gitbook/assets/image.png)

2. Choose type **url** and enter the URL of the latest release zip file, e.g.: [https://github.com/programmfabrik/fylr-plugin-server-pdf/releases/download/v1.0.0/fylr-plugin-server-pdf.zip](https://github.com/programmfabrik/fylr-plugin-server-pdf/releases/download/v1.0.0/fylr-plugin-server-pdf.zip) (you may check for newer plugin releases [here](https://github.com/programmfabrik/fylr-plugin-server-pdf/releases) )
3. Make sure the plugin is marked as **enabled**, as in the screenshot above

### Create at least one PDF template

4. Go to **Rights Management** (the 3 people icon, _NOT_ the gear cogs icon) - **Object Types** - choose one object type - go to the tab named **PDF Creator** (see screenshot)

&#x20;![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (1).png>) (click to enlarge)

5. Click the **+** button.
6. Name your template.
7. Do not forget to click **Save** at the end.

### Create a PDF

8. Go to **Lists** - **Object Types** - choose one type - Select one Object - right click - **Print**

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (3).png>)

9. In **Custom Layouts** - open the dropdown - choose one (pdf template 1 in below example) - click **Print**

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (4).png>)



Then a PDF is created and downloaded.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-144: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

tutorials/pdf-creator.md, after:

---
description: How to set up pdf creation in fylr, including plugin installation.
---

# PDF Creator

{% hint style="info" %}
The "PDF Creator" plugin is licensed as a separate module. Please check your license agreement in case of doubt.
{% endhint %}

### Install the plugin

1. Got to **Plugin-Manager** and if there is no **Server PDF Plugin** yet, press the **+** button at the bottom:

![](../.gitbook/assets/image.png) (click to enlarge)

2. Choose type **url** and enter the URL of the latest release zip file, e.g.: [https://github.com/programmfabrik/fylr-plugin-server-pdf/releases/download/v1.0.0/fylr-plugin-server-pdf.zip](https://github.com/programmfabrik/fylr-plugin-server-pdf/releases/download/v1.0.0/fylr-plugin-server-pdf.zip) (you may check for newer plugin releases [here](https://github.com/programmfabrik/fylr-plugin-server-pdf/releases) )
3. Make sure the plugin is marked as **enabled**, as in the screenshot above

### Create at least one PDF template

4. Go to **Rights Management** (the 3 people icon, _NOT_ the gear cogs icon) - **Object Types** - choose one object type - go to the tab named **PDF Creator** (see screenshot)

&#x20;![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (1).png>) (click to enlarge)

5. Click the **+** button.
6. Name your template.
7. Do not forget to click **Save** at the end.

### Create a PDF

8. Go to **Lists** - **Object Types** - choose a type with template - Select one Object - right click - **Print**

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (3).png>) (click to enlarge)

9. In **Custom Layouts** - open the dropdown - choose one (pdf template 1 in below example) - click **Print**

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (4).png>) (click to enlarge)



Then a PDF is created and downloaded.

If the PDF is too empty, you can edit the tempalte and add content.
