
# Release v6.17.1

Published 2025-02-06 14:54:41Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.17.1/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.17.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.17.1/fylr_v6.17.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.17.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.17.1/fylr_v6.17.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.17.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.17.1/fylr_v6.17.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.17.1_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.17.1/fylr_v6.17.1_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Improved

* **Transition Change Owner**: The transition change owner can now change the owner regardless of the current permissions of the session user. [1828f0e7]

### Fixed

* **/inspect/migration**: Fixed reverse proxy _unexpected EOF_ error visible during log watches. [8a6041bf]
* **/api/db**: Fixed length check to acknowledge UTF-8 characters. Length check is now counting runes, before we counted bytes which fails for characters like _ä_ (2 bytes, 1 rune). [e584a4e7]
* **File permission check**: In export and download, the `READ` right was not checked correctly in all cases, leading to too many files being shown to a user. [65f29b19]
* **/api/db**: Fixed `skipIndex=1` when used together with `skipConstraints=1`:  If constraint violations where noted during an import, the index for the object was still updated. [aee5d48a]
* **Indexer Go routine leak**:  This fixes a Go routine leak which appeared if a lot of index queuing was done. The code responsible to drain the wake-up queue for the indexer was not really draining the queue. [8e707b6f]
* **File watermarking**: Fixed watermarking using SVG files. The program `rsvg-convert` was missing in the Docker container. [4fb64774]

## Frontend

### New
- **Open in new tab**: Added a new tool in the context menu of the main search to open the selected record in a new browser tab. #75028

### Improved
- **Deep Link**: Improved the execution order when there is a deeplink in the URL in the main search. Now, the deeplink search is executed directly without running the main search, saving resources and enhancing the startup flow. #74067
- **Flex Handles**: Added a new option to flex handles to work with percentages instead of pixels. This improvement is available for developers using CUI to build the UI of plugins and use flex handles. #75008
- **Editor Templates**: Fixed the CSS of the new editor templates panel. #70030
- **Autocomplete In Search Input**: Improved the behavior of the autocomplete popup in the main search input. #74317
- **File Worker**: Enhanced the version editor in the base config. Now, the "right management" property correctly syncs across all versions with the same name. #73257
- **Lists**: Unified the default sorting option in lists. Now, all lists are sorted by default using the Standard sorting if the user has not selected another field for sorting. #72513
- **Mask Preview**: Added support for selecting example objects in the mask editor preview. Previously, selecting an example object only applied to the search preview and detail preview. #70435

### Fixed
- **Welcome Message**: Fixed an issue introduced in version 6.17 where welcome messages were not displayed correctly, causing the search to appear empty erroneously. #74983
- **Paged Viewer**: Fixed an issue in the document viewer of the asset browser that prevented pages from displaying correctly. #74958
- **Sort Manager**: Fixed the style of the new System Fields panel in the sort manager. Now, all sorting options are correctly aligned. #74626
- **Shared Collections**: Fixed a bug where non-shared collections were displayed to users with limited permissions. These collections were not accessible but were visible in the collection manager. Now, only shared collections will be shown in the Shared Collections panel. #74868
- **PDF Creator**: Fixed margin application in PDFs. Previously, margins were overridden by CSS. Now, user-configured margins are correctly applied in the final PDF. #73260
- **Original Download**: Fixed the download of original files when using the option in the EAS field. Now, the correct filename is used in the download. #74740
