
# Release v6.17.3

Published 2025-02-14 13:06:41Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.17.3/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.17.3_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.17.3/fylr_v6.17.3_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.17.3_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.17.3/fylr_v6.17.3_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.17.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.17.3/fylr_v6.17.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.17.3_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.17.3/fylr_v6.17.3_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Fixed

* **/inspect/migration**: Fixed restore after command line parameter changes in `6.17.0`. [0d7bfda4]
* **/api/eas/download**: Set filename to original. In case no filename is requested over the url, set download filename to original filename. Before no filename is set, so that browsers stored watermark downloads as _true.svg_.
* **/api/collection/list**: Fixed `limit` & permission check. [fd21b426] [738874bc]
* **Email**: In Gmail the subject was not displayed correctly for some emails. [4674b175]
* **/inspect/customdata**: Run search without "...". [f887ba4f]

### Improved

* **/api/collection/list[/id_parent]**: Support `id_parent` filter. [d679d248]
* **/api/search**: Support `_path.collection._id|_id_parent` for type `collection`. [d679d248]
* **/inpsect/objects**: Output mask API-ids where applicable. [f3516846]

## Frontend

### New
- **Pool: Tag records from other users (Beta)**: A new feature has been added to pools allowing users to tag objects that do not belong to them. This new function defines a custom virtual tag that will be displayed if the object being viewed does not belong to the current user. (Important: This feature may undergo changes in future releases) #74447
- **Pool: Sharing Deep Links settings (Beta)**: A new feature has been added to pools allowing users to configure whether defined users/groups can share an object they do not own. (Important: This feature may undergo changes in future releases) #74447

### Improved
- **Date Filters**: Additional levels of depth have been added to date filters. Users can now filter by months and days. #73482

### Fixed
- **Date Filters**: Fixed a bug where records were not correctly filtered using date fields when filters were nested within other filter groups. #73482
- **Sorting By DateFields**: Fixed an issue where records were not sorted correctly when using date fields grouped by weeks and containing objects with BC dates. #73482
- **Preview Mask Editor**: Fixed an error occurring when selecting a sample object in the mask editor preview. #70435
- **ACL Manager**: CSS corrections have been made to the ACL Manager. #75099
- **Detail Best Mask**: Fixed a bug where the mask was not correctly selected when opening the detail panel. This caused a mismatch between the mask shown in the selector and the mask used for rendering the object. #74619