
# Release v6.18.1

Published 2025-03-07 13:49:18Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.18.1/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.18.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.18.1/fylr_v6.18.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.18.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.18.1/fylr_v6.18.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.18.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.18.1/fylr_v6.18.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.18.1_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.18.1/fylr_v6.18.1_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Important

* **This release contains an important security bug fix. It is highly recommended to update to this version as soon as possible.**

### Fixed

* **/api/export**: Fixed recursion caused stack overflow (full **fylr** crash) if an export contained an object A with reverse nested B linking to another object C with reverse nested back to B. More general recursion protection has been added too, so that further cases are more likely to result in a panic rather than a stack overflow. [ac53fdc8] [40957697]
* **/api/schema**: Fixed error path on **Windows**. A database schema could not be properly reported due to a debug dump which caused an error on Windows. [4acf9068]
* **POST /api/db**: Fixed a stack overflow (**fylr** crashes). If object parent relations contain a recursion inside a bulk upload (all objects version 1), **fylr would not detected that recursion and insert the objects without error. After loading of these objects a stack overflow would occur. [5685dc2c] [40957697]
* **Plugin support**: Fixed exec server silent errors with wrong config. If the config contains an empty command like `fylr.services.execserver.commands.foo: null`, the exec server would not answer, the error message would only say "EOF". This was caused by a uncaught panic caused while reading the config. This fix catches panics during exec server job execution as well as improves the error messages with shorter message for better readability. [d244d2d2]
* **DELETE /api/db**: Allow deleting of two objects linking to each other. If an `object 1` [`object type A`] has a nested linking to `object 2` [`object type A`] deleting of `object 1` and `object 2` was blocked by the **fylr** server. [46baebdc]

### Improved

* **OAI/PMH**: Added attributes `completeListSize`, `cursor` & `expirationDate` to `resumptionToken`. [0446525b]
* **File Metadata XML**: Removed debug output. [801f4098]

## Frontend

### Fixed

* **Exact Match Search**: Fixed the exact match in autosuggestion for suggestions with more than one word
* **Editor Validation Errors**: Fixed validations errors when custom data types (like weblink) throw invalid save data exceptions
* **Autocomplete Token**: Fixed a bug where some autocomplete suggestion for custom data types were shown empty in the autocomplete popup.
* **Filter manager Popover**: Fixed an issue with toolbar buttons being cut off.
* **Default Tags**: Fixed an error when sending default tags to server for validation.