
# Release v6.22.1

Published 2025-07-24 12:05:12Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.22.1/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.22.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.22.1/fylr_v6.22.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.22.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.22.1/fylr_v6.22.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.22.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.22.1/fylr_v6.22.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.22.1_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.22.1/fylr_v6.22.1_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### New

* **SAML config**: Add **Identity-Provider Entity ID** as a setting to pick the correct entity descriptions from IDP metadata which contains a collection of IDP data. [229103cc8]

### Improved

* **/api/config**: Support future types in base config by ignoring unknown types. [749a2e3f8]
* **File worker**: Improved `size_minimum` explanation in recipe `browserthumbs`. [fa433f8fa]

### Fixed

* **/inspect/migration**: Fixed `Chunk size` setting for both, backup and restore. Previously the setting had no effect and always used _1000_.
* **GET /api/config**: Output more parameters to unprivileged users, which fixes **Deep links** in the frontend. [e63f1975d]

## Frontend

### Improved
 - **Base Config**: The base config now recognizes a new field type "user". This will render a user selector.
 - **Geo Json Column**: Support for geo-json columns in the csv-importer has been improved. Different formats can now be used to represent geographic data, and these will be converted and imported as valid geo-json. The supported formats are the same ones used in the geo-json input field.
 - **Change Log Grouping**: An option to group by date has been added to the change history field in the sort search menu.

### Fixed
 - **Download Search**: Fixed an issue when using the "Download Search" option while the filter panel is open.
 - **ACL Manager**: Fixed the CSS of the ACL Manager for collections that showed an unwanted horizontal scrollbar.
 - **Change History Field**: Added an option to group by weeks in the extra sorting options of the Change History field, following the pattern of other date fields.
 - **Plugin Manager**: Fixed the sorting of the plugin list when ordering by status. Plugins are now sorted alphabetically as a secondary sort criterion.
 - **Tag Has Value**: Fixed the "Has Value" modifier for Tags in expert search.
 - **Typo3 Metadata Mapping**: Fixed an issue that did not correctly process typo3 keyword metadata.
 - **Tag Icons**: Fixed an issue where using certain special keywords as tag names would display an icon instead of the first letter of the name in the reduced version of the tag, even when no icon was configured.
 - **Geo Json**: Fixed the query element when using expert search with geo-json fields.
