
# Release v6.21.1

Published 2025-06-12 10:59:53Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.21.1/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.21.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.21.1/fylr_v6.21.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.21.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.21.1/fylr_v6.21.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.21.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.21.1/fylr_v6.21.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.21.1_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.21.1/fylr_v6.21.1_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Fixed

* **Reindex**: Fixed `/inspect/system` reindex and automatic reindex for instances with no active data model. Affected systems do not start with `6.21.0` as the forced reindex step fails. [1e46d0c6]
* **IIIF Manifest**: Fixed two minor specification bugs in IIIF manifest. [72e97f0e]
* **SAML Login**: Fixed mapping for empty entries. Now, if a mapping is e.g. `%(department)s` for user column `department` and the SAML / LDAP record does not have an entry for this, `department` will be mapped empty. Before **fylr** would output an error _cannot use multiple entries_. [692833ca]
* **/inspect/objects**: Fixed switching to object type view with `index=all` selection. [0dbc8224]
* **Exec server**: Limit environment passed to programs to definitions from `fylr.yml`. [c24416c8]

## Frontend

### Fixed

* **Detail Sidebar**: Fixed a bug where the wrong mask was selected in the detail sidebar when the `best_mask` provided by the server could not be displayed in the detail. #74619
* **Geo-Json Column**: Fixed an issue where geo-json columns did not work correctly within nested Tables.
* **Table View**: Fixed the display of data in Table View when the data is nested within another nested table. #76341
* **Table View In Collections**: Fixed a critical issue that prevented a collection from opening if the Table View had been previously used as the view mode in collections.
* **Table View**: Fixed a bug that could cause Table View to erroneously exclude fields in the search request, resulting in empty rows.
* **Save Prefs**: Fixed an issue that could cause saving preferences to fail. #76361
* **Shared Searches**: Improved the shared searches functionality to automatically add the necessary permissions when creating the shared link. #70569