
# Release v6.22.2

Published 2025-07-29 13:29:08Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.22.2/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.22.2_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.22.2/fylr_v6.22.2_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.22.2_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.22.2/fylr_v6.22.2_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.22.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.22.2/fylr_v6.22.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.22.2_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.22.2/fylr_v6.22.2_windows_amd64.zip)

## Important

**Under some circumstances, configuration can be lost, under the previous release, v6.22.1:**
* If it is configuration of a plugin,
* and if the configuration also was stored as type table.
* and if a Save button for configuration was also pressed in the frontend:
  * If the save was done only for a given plugin using the new config tab in plugin manager, then the loss is only for that plugin.
  * If the save was done using the general base config manager then all plugins with table-configuration lost the data of the tables.

So, if no save was done, no data was lost. If someone only looked at the plugin config without saving, no data should be lost.

**Under v6.22.1, the plugin configuration might look wrong or incomplete, although it is still complete in the database.**

We recommend to update to this release, v6.22.2, in any case.

In case you actually lost configuration: 

After the update, the missing plugin configuration can be re-entered in the frontend. 

Or you can restore a sql-backup from before the save action. 
* Either you continue to work with this restored database, 
* or, probably much better due to other data changes in your fylr, you just use it to download the whole baseconfig as json via the frontend and then continue to work with your most recent sql database. The downloaded json can be uploaded there. (The download and upload are done via the settings-icon as mentioned in https://docs.fylr.io/for-administrators/readme#working-with-the-base-configuration.)

## Server

### Fixed

* **/api/config/list**: Don't remove fields from `type: table` for plugins. This issue was introduced in `6.22.1` and led to empty rendered configuration settings for plugins. Introduced by commit [749a2e3f8], fixed in commit [2ab421d62]

