
# Release v6.25.0

Published 2025-09-30 14:03:41Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.25.0/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.25.0_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.25.0/fylr_v6.25.0_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.25.0_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.25.0/fylr_v6.25.0_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.25.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.25.0/fylr_v6.25.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.25.0_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.25.0/fylr_v6.25.0_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

## Important

* This release **forces a blocking re-index**. Make sure to plan enough time for
  this update as your users will not be able to access the database while the
  re-index is running. [d1cbc966e]
* This release **enables the janitor** which purges deleted objects (if
  configured) and also unlinks files from deleted objects to save disk space (if
  configured). To turn this off or on, check your base config settings in
  services (purge objects & file link removal section). [17c48431a]
* The **fylr container image** (e.g. for Docker) turns off `http2` for the Go client. This affects
  `/api/rput` and other places (like in the exec server) where fylr loads data
  from other servers. Details see below. If you run **fylr** outside of a container and want
  the same effect, set the environment variable:
  `GODEBUG="httpservecontentkeepheaders=1,http2client=0"` for the **fylr** binary. [005edc1e2]

### New

* **/api/eas/download**, **/api/objects**: Added direct recipe support for file
  downloads. With this, you can directly target a recipe with parameters to
  create a new rendition of the file on-the-fly. One recipe we deliver for this
  is `audioconverter:snippet` which allows to cut audio files before download.
  [3ba3eedd0]
* **Task Module _delete_object_**: The module allows to delete objects based on
  a search. [adb6a8fa3]

### Improved

* **fylr backup / restore**: Various improvements. [665d018c3]
* **fylr convert**: Improved support for some TIFF images. [760421d9c]
* **Indexer Priority**: Index **base objects** with higher priority. If the
  index queue is full, messages, users and other base types were only reindexed
  after the regular object (if added later) leading to unexpected frontend
  errors. With this patch, such base objects are indexed with higher priority,
  avoiding such problems. [18359637f] [a71c8a43c]
* **/api/collection**: `_has_acl` for collections is now only true if there are
 active compiled acl (before non active ACL would not be skipped). Also, don't
 allow to set `is_system_collection` over the API. [c0531f7cc] [42dadbb00]
* **Documentation**: **/api/collection** and **/api/db_info** has been added to
  **/inspect/documentation**. [f723001c2] [e0e4e833c]
* **/inspect**: Collapse `<h3>` tag elements for easier navigation. [f723001c2]
  [d1f5cee80]
* **Postgres DB**: Create new database with 64-bit integers. Before we used
  32-bit integers which caused overflow problems in bigger systems with lots of
  objects. [f24f13757]
* **PDF-Converter**: The preview size of the bigger page can now be configured
  using the recipe parameter `min_size`. The default is 1000. [6ebb1d951]
* **OAI/PMH**:  Support non spec compliant `offset` as URL parameter. [fd62e3e57]
* **/inspect/files**: Refined action `map_to_local_storage`. Now, we set
  `leave_on_remote` to _false_ and `produce_versions` to _true_. With this
  change a in place on disk migrated file from easydb 5 can now produce fylr
  renditions when re-synced. [8a02d65db]
* **/api/task/modules**: Improved reading loca keys. Before **fylr** only read
top level loca keys for the config parameters of a task module. [dad52ddba]
* **/api/db**: Add `_purged_or_deferred` indicator to linked objects output.
  [48fe7aa1e]

### Fixed

* **Indexer Dates**: Fix indexing dates with a timezone offset outside of -18:00
  and 18:00. This data is not received well by the Java based Opensearch and
  lasticsearch. This caused objects to not being index if they contained a file
  with a created date with such a timezone. Requires a re-index. [d53c50589]
  [d1cbc966e]
* **/api/collection/splice**: Fixed a case where splice was not splicing the
  correct objects. This resulted in incorrect sort order after manual sorting.
  Also, require `count` to be set. Before omitting `count` defaulted to _-1_.
  [49fc6be63] [c0531f7cc]
* **/api/db|search**: When loading historic versions, make sure to load the
  historic version of a parent. Before, the current object of a parent was
  loaded. Also force to skip cache when historic versions are loaded.
  [0a8999bd488] [a825ea0e9]
* **/api/collection**: Disallow setting of `is_system_collection`. [c271b2e5f]
* **/inspect/migration**: Fixed ZIP download. The zip downloaded couldn't be
  opened with all ZIP tools because of corruption at the end of the file.
  [325fb9111]
* **Janitor**: Fixed **object purge** selection. This patch makes sure that the
  correct information is used to decide if an object (without pool) will be
  purged or not. [4522543dd]
* **OAI/PMH**: Fixed verb `GetRecord` to return correct XML (this was using
  `ListRecords` as metadata element). Fixed rendering of reverse nested in
  `_path` if parent values is on. [fd62e3e57]
* **DELETE /api/db**: Fixed case where reverse nested with `NOT NULL` setting
  for the link column were set not null when policy `setnull` was used.
  [69b991bf5]
* **/inspect**: Fixed access during re-index. If the reverse proxy was
  configured using `bind`, opening `/inspect´ during a blocking re-index would
  show the blocking page. [bb5e95286]
* **Janitor**: Fixed pool select for **object file unlink** and **object
  purge**. The janitor failed to select the correct objects and files if the
  object has been moved to a different pool in its latest version. Now, the
  janitor policy of the pool of the latest version of the object is considered.
  [425845862]
* **/api/eas/rput**: Worked around a problem with connecting to a remote IIS
  server with HTTP2 by forcing HTTP1.1. We couldn't figure out if the bug is in
  the Go client library or in the IIS server. [005edc1e2]



## Frontend


### New

- **Relative Ranges**: Following the new form added to the Date Column in the previous release, we’ve introduced a new button in Date Range fields that allows creating relative ranges for both *from* and *to*. This new form makes it possible to perform relative searches from today, both into the future and the past. For example, you could build a search query that looks for objects whose date range field is between “3 years ago until 3 years in the future”.

### Improved

- **Collection Sorting**: Improved system responsiveness when sorting objects in collections.
- **Flex Handles**: Improved display of some flex handles in the system. For example, the quick access in the main search now shows a label when closed.
- **Recover Tool**: The recover tool, which allows using a version from the change history as a new version of an object, will now be accessible to users with *editor + change history* access, not just root users.
- **Janitor Overrides**: Improved the behavior of forms in Object Type Manager and Pool Manager when overriding janitor configuration. Enhancements include:
  - The inherited value is now displayed in pools.
  - Placeholders better reflect the current configuration state.

### Fixed
- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: Fixed the use of `ctrl+a` when search is open.
- **Change History**: Fixed the date formatting in change history.
- **Wildcard Fulltext Searches**: Fixed functionality of wildcard searches in fulltext query elements.
- **Nested Popups**: Fixed validation issues in nested popups with multiple levels of nested tables.
- **Save Shortcut**: Fixed the `ctrl+s` keyboard shortcut for saving in the editor sidebar.
- **Editor Popup**: Fixed an issue where event listeners did not work properly in full-screen editors, preventing field validations from functioning.
- **Filter Manager**: Fixed an issue where the "Show More" button in filter panels did not display the correct elements when filtering hierarchy objects in search.
- **Created Today**: Fixed the functionality of the "Created Today" query element and fixed saved searches.
- **Mark Changes in Change History**: Fixed issues with the functionality that highlights differences in the change history.
- **Sort By Date**: Fixed an issue that prevented sorting search results by date when no group sorting was selected.
- **Sort Manager Panels**: Fixed a bug that allowed selecting multiple sort criteria for the same index.
- **Has Value for Assets**: Fixed the label of the *has_value* query element in EAS fields.
- **EAS Columns**: Fixed an issue where deleted assets displayed the context menu in the change history.
- **Quick View for Deleted Objects**: When a non-deleted object has a linked object pointing to a deleted one, users can now view the quick view of that object even if they don’t have access to the trash manager.
- **Sharing URL**: Fixed an issue preventing searches from being shared via URL when queries contained spaces.
- **Default Tags**: Fixed the automatic assignment of default tags that were also hidden.
