
# Release v6.20.1

Published 2025-05-06 11:40:55Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.20.1/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.20.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.20.1/fylr_v6.20.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.20.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.20.1/fylr_v6.20.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.20.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.20.1/fylr_v6.20.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.20.1_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.20.1/fylr_v6.20.1_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Improved

* **File worker**: Move video thumbnailing to service "convert". The video thumbnailing was using ffmpeg service to producer the thumbnail. This was switched to service: convert to not be in waitgroup "slow" which per default has only 2 workers and those get easily clogged during video conversion. [e63bc8e6]

### Fixed

* **/api/db**: Avoid deadlock: Before, accessing /api/db with highly parallel requests, could cause a deadlock while getting a lock on "object_unique", this was fixed by reordering database requests. Additionally we are taking this lock now too when /api/db is called with `skip_constraints=1` to make that mode safer to use. [ebfd8b6d]
* **/api/task**: Fixed security bug in a task module. [5b78e5ca]
* **/api/suggest**: Fix suggesting more than one item in `fields` in mode `"fields_suggest": true`. Suggest was returning meaningless results with `{ suggest: "" }`, if multiple `fields` where used. Now these results are skipped in the response. [077ec2dd]
* **/api/eas|export**: Fixed custom rendition with quality setting `maximum`. This is now using quality _100%_. Before this was set to _75%_ same as for `medium`. [4ff78307]

## Frontend

### Improved

- **Read Only mode**: The read-only mode has been improved and new messages have been added to inform the user that certain actions cannot be performed.

### Fixed

- **Linked Object Expert Search**: Fixed a bug that prevented the expert search linked objects from resizing correctly, as well as fields that inherit from it like the parent field.
- **Search Query Editor**: Fixed an issue where the search query editor was displayed with the incorrect size. Also removed support for some query elements that do not support the editor, such as suggestion query elements, to prevent frontend errors.
- **Linked Object Suggestions**: Fixed an issue when using suggestions in the main search for linked objects.
- **Query Validation**: Fixed an issue where query elements for linked objects were not being properly validated, making the search impossible.
- **Fulltext Metadata**: Now the fulltext query elements will include the `metadata_fulltext` field in the search property if any of the selected object types had any `EAScolumn`. If not, then this field must now be included.
- **Geo Json**: Fixes the check for showing the map search manager in the main layout. There was a case using cross-server that caused an invalid state in the frontend when using plugins from the local instance for testing.