
# Release v6.23.1

Published 2025-08-14 13:27:43Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.23.1/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.23.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.23.1/fylr_v6.23.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.23.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.23.1/fylr_v6.23.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.23.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.23.1/fylr_v6.23.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.23.1_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.23.1/fylr_v6.23.1_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Improved

* **/api/oai**: **Identify server** with `deletedRecord=transient`. Setting deletedRecord to transient weakens the promise of previously announced "persistent". Now, the harvesters are no longer guaranteed that an object which once was in the feed will appear as deleted if it no longer is. This works around cases where objects are being unpublished by removing the rights from the `system:oai_pmh` user to see the object. It also covers more complex cases: E.g. in a set representing _pool a_, an object might go missing because it has been moved to _pool b_ with the same published status. [c850d2cf0]
* **/api/export**: **XLSX / CSV** formats have now an improved column sorting. With this patch, **fylr** sorts system columns, followed by user columns, followed by nested & reverse nested. [5ea0d7e7b]
* **/api/pool|objecttype**: Check settings for `caption` parameter. This adds a check to the caption parameters for size + padding. Also, replace all `%<name>.<field>%` placeholders in the caption text regardless of the rendered object type. With that, multiple object types can be configured in one caption text. [8f5afc17c]
* **Logging**: Improved output of time for re-indexing done messages. [7f2affeeb]

### Fixed

* **Indexer**: Fixed indexing inconsistent linked objects. If a linked object in a column linking to OT A happens to be of OT B it could happen that the indexer panicked. The underlying problem is the inconsistency of the data (a not supposed to be there OT B where the link should point to an object OT A). [5993be1b0]
* **/api/config**: Render user records for the new type `user`. Before, the response only showed the user ID. This changes the internal data base format to store the user. If users have been already configured in base config, the setting is lost and needs to be configured again. [5121f4d6b]
* **/inspect**: Support user select in Safari. [f343905df]

<!-- commits included until f343905df1cbe0d11a9706b810455402ae687c75 -->

## Frontend

### Fixed

* **Hierarchy Manager**: Fixed the hierarchy manager when using the standard view and text view in Lists.
* **Date Filters**: Introduced a new argument for the translations of date filter groupings. This is useful for translation into languages such as FI-fi.
* **Trashbin**: Removed the "Create Background Task" option from the trashbin context menu.
* **Nested Popovers**: Fixed an issue when attempting to create the nested popover that prevented it from being saved.