# Release v6.26.0 (2025-10-30)

Published 2025-10-30 15:14:32Z

* [fylr\_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.26.0/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr\_v6.26.0\_darwin\_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.26.0/fylr_v6.26.0_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr\_v6.26.0\_darwin\_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.26.0/fylr_v6.26.0_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr\_v6.26.0\_linux\_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.26.0/fylr_v6.26.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr\_v6.26.0\_windows\_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.26.0/fylr_v6.26.0_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Important

* A change in the **rights management** may lead to a necessary re-configuration of permissions. If you relied on `ASSET_DOWNLOAD` implying `ASSET_SHOW`, you must add a separate permission now as this is no longer the case. See below for more information.
* If you are using a **custom exec server configuration** in your **fylr.yml**, the new service `ocr` needs to be configured. See [`fylr.default.yml`](https://docs.fylr.io/for-system-administrators/configuration/fylr.default.yml) for an example. See below for more information. \[532498eb7]
* This **fylr** version officially supports the new [PostgreSQL 18](https://www.postgresql.org/about/news/postgresql-18-released-3142/). We recommend this version for new installations. \[36ae2790a]

### New

* **/api/system/share\_link**: New API to shorten links. This new api endpoint allows frontends to request a shortened url for a given long path. This is useful to shorten complex search queries. \[4a3b23377] \[e3a01568c]
* **/api/db**: Support **search** & **replace** & **append** for loca values in group mode. \[5b3675b3b]
* **/api/db**: New url parameter `skip_plugins`. Skips the execution of plugin callbacks (`system.root` users only).
* **/api/oaipmh**: Add tagfilter to mark records as deleted. Configuration in base config. \[3ecb7faab]
* **CSV Export**: Support top level fields for reverse nested. Before, these fields were not part of the CSV output. \[27724d990]
* **IIIF Presentation Manifest**: Support files with page previews (like `PDF`) in IIIF sequences. \[e4482a5a1]

### Improved

* **/inspect/files/**_**file**_: Output object ids from value table. The file.object\_ids column is not correctly set if files are imported without version produced (remote files don't set this data). This was confusing for some users. The patch adds an actual select to show relations stored in the `value` table. \[21927df00]
* **Rights management**: Separate `ASSET_SHOW` & `ASSET_DOWNLOAD` permissions. This patch **changes the rights management**. Before ASSET\_DOWNLOAD would imply ASSET\_SHOW which was confusing and prevented users from blocking non watermark renditions from view (but allow the download). Existing configurations which relied on that feature need to be adjusted by adding ASSET\_SHOW to the allowed permissions. \[35d0289d6]
* **fylr pdf2pages**: Use less memory by chunking mutool payloads. Limits processing to 10 pages per `mutool` call to use less memory when rendering pages for PDFs. \[f0b6aee4b]
* **fylr convert + pdf2pages**: Catch _CTRL-C_ and kill external programs. This cancels the context external programs are executed with. When pressing _CTRL-C_, fylr will now send a kill signal to started processes. Also, the new code tries to be more gently in killing started programs. It uses `SIGTERM` and only after 2 seconds will send `SIGKILL`. Also, it tries to gently kill the whole group (the external programs and its descendants). On Windows **fylr** now uses `taskkill` to signal the process and all its children to terminate. \[77c105868] \[2ae393075] \[fa3101ddf]
* **Dockerfile**: Upgraded the distribution to the new Debian `testing` (_forky_). \[f939b3fc3]
* **/inspect/files**: Action `map_to_local_storage` now sets the `leave_on_remote` flag to false which helps understanding the current state of the files better. The action can still be repeated because `leave_on_remote` is not a required flag for the action file filter. Also, always show status message in file list. And last but not least, action `resync` tests reachability of remote url for file with `leave_on_remote` turned on. \[899e6940f] \[b35469f4a] \[77b036023]
* **/api/config**: Don't allow **oauth2 client** hashes with > 14 rounds. Turns out that such hashes need too much time to compute. \[c6dc257e5]
* **fylr.yml**: New config `fylr.debug.disableHttp2Client` allows to disable HTTP2. If you experiencing problems when loading files from a Microsoft IIS, this option might help to fix the downloads. This patch re-enables HTTP2 in the fylr container image after **6.25.0** turned HTTP2 off. \[aff8c5509] \[8f5a9f8af]
* **Janitor**: Improved speed for collecting objects to purge and file delete. Also, moved files to the bottom of the janitor page in /inspect/system/janitor. \[eca56878c] \[cb95c71d3] \[ff616a0ae] \[c8435cc84]
* **Filename replacements**: Add `_standard` and more column types. This adds the `_standard.N.text` + `_standard.N.text.LANG` replacements to the filename compilation. Adds `_pool.name.LANG` and column types _text\_loca_, _integer\_2_, _number_, _double_, _date_, _datetime_, _daterange_. In addition, **linked objects** are supported with replacements for `_standard.*`. Sort the filename replacements returned by `/api/objecttype` alphabetically. \[a91b3a422] \[5f8a6b41e] \[29c1abc7c]
* **fylr backup / restore**: Various improvements and fixes. \[a05c9e1bb] \[a05c9e1bb] \[01d7e2ce0] \[643167bb5] \[4ad86efcc]
* **/api/pool|objecttype**: Added a per file configuration for captions. Also, introduced a 202 process to resync files. If watermark or caption configuration changes, the API responds with a 202 when pools or objecttypes are saved. This includes more replacements too (see _Filename replacements_) \[97bdf0ebe] \[39b48c8c7] \[d7d7e9368] \[4b294150f] \[fcafbdbcc]
* **Cookbook `audioconverter`**: The recipe `audioconverter.snippet` gained support for fractional seconds. \[a450a2a5a]
* **Cookbook `imageconverter`**: Add `WEBP` as supported output format to recipe `imageconverter.browserthumbs`. \[520f7ca34]
* **Cookbook `_metadata`**: Introduce service `ocr`. This service is used by recipe `_metadata.ocr` and it allows a separate configuration to run the compute intense [**Tesseract**](https://tesseract-ocr.github.io/). If you are using the standard configuration, no changes should be necessary. See `fylr.default.yml` for an example on how to configure the new service. \[532498eb7]
* **/api/db**: Improved checks for deferred checks. The checks for errors `DeferredLinkedObjectMatchingSystemObjectId` and `DeferredLinkedObjectWrongObjecttype` are now only performed for newly inserted objects (version 1), which saves time. This patch also makes the checks safe for parallel injects (used by **fylr restore**). \[6cc75f587]
* **/api/db**: Hierarchy numbering: Don't support `<nil>` child idx. This patch makes sure that `_parent_child_idx` is always set. This ensures that we see a numbering for hierarchies where this is configured. Before, a `<nil>` state was supported which disabled the numbering for that object. \[4b899c980]
* **/api/config**: New 202 process to **ignore errors**. If the base config contains mapping errors like a faulty LDAP connection, the server now response with a 202 status. This allows the user to store such a config while ignoring the errors. BaseConfigMap can be skipped for saving if their attribute Savable is set. Currently only SAML & LDAP configuration check errors are savable. A new error `BaseConfigParse` was introduced for errors during unmarshal. \[a901b4600]
* **/api/message**: Output API error `StartTimeAfterEndTime` if `start_time` > `end_time`. \[e69237397]

### Fixed

* **Background Tasks**: If a task was extecuted on many objects, a panic that **fylr** is out of timers could occur. Fixed by re-using timer objects with equal names. \[0f6583915]
* **/api/search**: Fixed sorting for values with leading _0_. Affected instances require a re-index for the new ordering to work. \[1e86e9013]
* **/api/schema**: Remove deleted object types from transitions. Before, loading transitions with deleted object types would fail. \[558cd637c]
* **fylr backup**: Fixed panic when parsing B.C. dates. Parsing BC dates required localization to be loaded. During backup we don't have that, added a fallback. \[bb70270da]
* **/api/db**: Fixed saving `_child_numbering` with active plugins. The `_all_fields` mask (used for sending data to plugins), did not marshal \_child\_numbering, causing the value saved as empty. \[26f6732a0]
* **/api/db**: Fixed bidirectional duplicate case which led to fylr crash. If a duplicate bidirectional link was sent, the server could crash with a stack overflow. \[f35c656ec]

## Frontend

### New

* **Splash Screen**: A new loading screen has been added at the start of the application. The loading screen is displayed in parallel and does not block the app loading process.
* **Shortener URL**: A new option has been added to shorten URLs when sharing a search. Until now, when sharing a search via URL, all the different parameters were serialized in the URL, generating very long and complex links. Now fylr offers the option to use a short URL to share searches.
* **Watermark Config Per Objecttype**: We have added the ability to configure the watermark per object type. Previously, the watermark was configured at the pool level; now it can be configured per object type if it is not pool-managed and if it contains EAS columns.
* **Image Captions**: We have added the ability to add captions to images. These captions can use replacements and can also be configured per EAS column. You will find this new configuration in the same tab as the watermark settings in both Objecttype and Pool.
* **Asset Variant Plugins**: We have added the ability to create new plugins for the Asset Variant section. This new plugin type allows extending editing functionalities such as rotation or cropping. The first plugin to use this new feature is the new `fylr-plugin-image-obscure`, which adds new editing options to obscure parts of images interactively in the frontend, such as pixelate, blur, or blackout. Currently, this new way to extend the variant editor is not fully available for general development. Documentation and a practical example will be added to `fylr-plugin-example` once it is completely available.
* **View and Download Right Split**: A new check has been introduced in the frontend that allows users to configure download and read rights separately. Previously, the download right automatically implied read = true. Now they can be configured independently, allowing assets that can only be downloaded but not displayed in the asset browser.

### Improved

* **Pool Watermark**: The watermark configuration in pools has been improved with a new selector that indicates whether the configuration is active, inherited from the parent pool, or completely disabled. Previously, there was no way to disable the watermark configuration in a child pool.
* **Open of Records**: Improved behavior when double-clicking on records in the main search. Until now, when an object was selected, it could be opened with a single click, which caused confusion with the double-click action. To make the intention clearer, the behavior has been changed so that an object can now only be opened by double-clicking.

### Fixed

* **Caption Configuration**: Fixed a bug where the root pool triggered a resync popup when changing configurations other than the caption configuration.
* **Search Selector**: Fixed a z-index issue by reorganizing the markup so that z-index is no longer required.
* **Pool Manager DEV**: Added a dump data debug shortcut to the pool manager. Now, if `Alt + Click` is used on the save button, the pool data will be displayed in the console.
* **Export Manager**: Temporarily removed the "Stop" button for exports currently in progress.
* **Pin Asset Browser**: Fixed a bug where the pin asset browser button disappeared from the DOM when editing any field in the editor.
* **Export Transport Editor**: Fixed a bug where the export transport popup could not be opened if the configured transport data was invalid.
* **WebP Assets**: Fixed a bug where WebP versions with watermarks were never selected by the asset browser for display.
* **Exact Token Query**: Fixed a bug where Exact Token Query elements could not be edited by double-clicking them.
* **Cross Server Modebar**: Fixed an issue where the cross-server modebar was displayed in situations where it should not appear. Additionally, the modebar will now minimize when the header is minimized.
* **Presentations**: Fixed an error when loading collection presentations that could include unavailable elements.
* **Nested Table**: Fixed an error in nested tables that caused an extra row to be added if an asset was loaded into an EAS Column in the first row, resulting in two rows. Now the asset loads into the correct row without adding a new one at the top.
