
# Release v6.25.1

Published 2025-10-17 10:18:08Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.25.1/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.25.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.25.1/fylr_v6.25.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.25.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.25.1/fylr_v6.25.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.25.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.25.1/fylr_v6.25.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.25.1_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.25.1/fylr_v6.25.1_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Fixed

* **/api/system/location**: Fixed config check for type `azure`, preventing new storage locations from being created. [c5f8a5748]
* **Rightsmanagement**: Add tagfilter check to permissions defined for tags. [315b09fa6]
* **Groups Management**: Skip deleted groups in transitions at startup. Before **fylr** startup could fail if a deleted group was still mentioned in a transition. Now, the startup ignores the deleted group. The transition will still fail without manual clean-up. [73dfa21a2]

### Improved

* **/inspect/files**: Action `produce versions` can now reproduce renditions for read-only storage locations. The read-only location is not changed, of course. [5fec8c922]

## Frontend

### Fixed

- Trash Bin: Improved CSS; added a label to Trash search to indicate the selected object type.
- Shared Collections: Fixed pagination when a user has more than 100 shared collections.
- Workflows: Fixed a frontend error when opening the Tags & Workflows panel if a workflow had validation errors.
- Reverse Pool Selector: Fixed an issue where the pool auto-selected by the top-level object in reverse-linked fields was not sent to the server.
- Quick Access: Fixed style issues in the Quick Access menu.
- Asset Info: For root users, the quick link to the asset’s Inspect page now uses the correct URL.
- Template Manager: Fixed preview panels so the modal height remains constant while navigating template previews.
- Deep Links: Prevented availability checks from running when deep links are fully disabled in the base configuration.
- Admin Messages: Fixed an issue that prevented clearing the Start Time and End Time inputs.
- Export Manager: Fixed a bug where exporting a single object always enabled “Customize Masks” due to incorrect detection of whether the object was using `best_mask`.
