for-administrators/readme/services.md, before:

---
description: >-
  In this section you can enable/disable various background services, like
  workflow emails, automatically recurring exports or the janitor who cleans up
  old data.
---

# Services

## Workflow Notifications

This service sends emails triggered by workflows (if configured under "Tags & Workflows"). If not enabled, no workflow emails will be send.

{% hint style="info" %}
Please make sure that you set up [emailing](email.md).
{% endhint %}



## Exporter

This service executes automated exports (if a schedule is defined for an export). If not enabled, scheduled exports will not be executed automatically.



## Custom-Data-Type Updater

This services automatically updates data stored in custom data type fields. For example: [GND](https://github.com/programmfabrik/easydb-custom-data-type-gnd), [Geonames](https://github.com/programmfabrik/easydb-custom-data-type-geonames) or [Getty](https://github.com/programmfabrik/easydb-custom-data-type-getty). If not enabled, the data that was copied into FYLR when linking to an external thesaurus will not be updated.

{% hint style="info" %}
For more configuration of each plugin, please see "Plugins".
{% endhint %}



## Documentation

### Activate /docs



### GitHub Token





## Janitor

This service regularly cleans up data.

### Active

Enable/Disable the Janitor.

### Remove Unused Files After n Days

Specify after how many days unused files should be deleted from the storage. Unused files are files that has been uploaded to FYLR but have never been linked to a record.

### Settings For Users

#### Archive Inactive Users After n Days

Specify after how many days user accounts that have not logged in should be archived.

{% hint style="info" %}
Attention: archived users will not be able to log in. Archived users can be re-activated but their collections will be deleted when archiving the user account.
{% endhint %}

#### Types of Users To Be Archived

Specify the types of users that should be automatically archived after the above specified number or days.

#### Delete Archived Users After n Days

Specify after how many days archived user accounts should be deleted.

{% hint style="info" %}
Attention: deleted users will be removed from the system and can't be re-activated. See also "[User Management](user-management.md)".
{% endhint %}



### Settings For Events

Specify after how many days the events should be deleted.

#### Delete IP Address From Events After n Days

Specify after how many days the IP addresses of users should be deleted from the events.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-72: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

for-administrators/readme/services.md, after:

---
description: >-
  In this section you can enable/disable various background services, like
  workflow emails, automatically recurring exports or the janitor who cleans up
  old data.
---

# Services

## Workflow Notifications

This service sends emails triggered by workflows (if configured under "Tags & Workflows"). If not enabled, no workflow emails will be send.

{% hint style="info" %}
Please make sure that you set up [emailing](email.md).
{% endhint %}



## Exporter

This service executes automated exports (if a schedule is defined for an export). If not enabled, scheduled exports will not be executed automatically.



## Custom-Data-Type Updater

This services automatically updates data stored in custom data type fields. For example: [GND](https://github.com/programmfabrik/easydb-custom-data-type-gnd), [Geonames](https://github.com/programmfabrik/easydb-custom-data-type-geonames) or [Getty](https://github.com/programmfabrik/easydb-custom-data-type-getty). If not enabled, the data that was copied into FYLR when linking to an external thesaurus will not be updated.

{% hint style="info" %}
For more configuration of each plugin, please see "Plugins".
{% endhint %}



## Documentation

### Activate /docs



### GitHub Token





## Janitor

This service regularly cleans up data.

### Active

Enable/Disable the Janitor.

### Remove Unused Files After n Days

Specify after how many days unused files should be deleted from the storage. Unused files are files that has been uploaded to FYLR but have never been linked to a record. Enter "0" to remove unused files with every janitor run (every hour).

### Settings For Users

#### Archive Inactive Users After n Days

Specify after how many days user accounts that have not logged in should be archived. Enter "0" to archive inactive users with every janitor run (every hour).

{% hint style="info" %}
Attention: archived users will not be able to log in. Archived users can be re-activated but their collections will be deleted when archiving the user account.
{% endhint %}

#### Types of Users To Be Archived

Specify the types of users that should be automatically archived after the above specified number or days.

#### Delete Archived Users After n Days

Specify after how many days archived user accounts should be deleted. Enter "0" to delete archived users with every janitor run (every hour).

{% hint style="info" %}
Attention: deleted users will be removed from the system and can't be re-activated. See also "[User Management](user-management.md)".
{% endhint %}



### Settings For Events

Specify after how many days the events should be deleted. Enter "0" to delete the events with every janitor run (every hour).

#### Delete IP Address From Events After n Days

Specify after how many days the IP addresses of users should be deleted from the events. Enter "0" to delete the IP address with every janitor run (every hour).
