
# Release v6.12.1

Published 2024-08-01 13:13:16Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.12.1/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.12.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.12.1/fylr_v6.12.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.12.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.12.1/fylr_v6.12.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.12.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.12.1/fylr_v6.12.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.12.1_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.12.1/fylr_v6.12.1_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Important

* Sorting by original filename broke in `6.12.0` and was fixed in this release. **A re-index is required for the sorting to work**.

### Improved

* Make **data model loading** more robust in case of inconsistencies. Some inconsistencies would cause **fylr** not to start. [cab7f755]
* **OAI/PMH**: Use the same XSLT input when rendering objects as for the `/api/objects` endpoint. Before the actual OAI record was sent. [587629ec]
* **/inspect/objects**: Add an selection to order objects by **System Object ID** (also the default now). [b3c6c3e0]
* **/inspect/files/dumpfile**: Limit loading data to 1MB. This fixes huge memory consumptions when previewing a **TIFF**. Also fixes metadata output for images.

### Fixed

* **/api/eas/produce**: Fixed rotating images to the left (degrees < 0). [a0f259c1]
* **Login Page**: Fixed customization of login label. [34252070]
* **Metadata Mapping**: Use asset's height as part of the actual height mapper. [54224e16]
* **Base Config**: Acknowledge settings `For OAI/PMH` and `/api/objects` for XSLT sheets. Check your base config if sheets are not available after this update. [d85cd971]
* **/api/search**: Sort by `original_filename` (and other filename derivatives) was fixed. **This requires a re-index**. [1f757c22]
* **/inspect/objecttypes**: Show statistics about files. [185c13ac]
* **/api/db|search**: Output `_level` in hierarchy object types starting at `1` and not at `0`. This is the same in easydb 5 as well as in all base types. [573bc812]
* **/inspect/datamodel**: Fixes showing object types with assets columns. [6cee64cd]
* **Workflow mails**: Fixed sending emails to group recipients. [5795a801]

## Frontend

### Improved
- **Metadata Mapping**: Changes have been made to the metadata mapping manager to display all object types, in line with the server-side changes.
- **Filter Manager**: The structure of the "More..." popover in the search filters has been improved.
- **Default Values Plugin**: The `editor-tagfilter-defaults-plugin` has been updated to allow setting default values for boolean fields.
- **Data Model Manager**: The error message when attempting to delete an object type that is being used as a linked object in another object type has been improved. The message will now include the full path of each field where this object type is used, greatly facilitating the identification of fields that need to be modified before proceeding with the deletion.

### Fixed
- **Editor Templates**: Now, the name of a new editor template is checked before saving. If an existing template has the same name, the user will be prompted to enter a different name.
- **Full-text Suggestions in Expert Search**: Full-text suggestions in the string inputs of the expert search have been corrected. The wildcard will now be correctly added.
- **Date Sorting**: The new configuration for sorting objects by date has been enhanced. Now, if a grouping like "By Year," "By Week," etc., is used and no additional sorting criteria are provided, a secondary criterion will be applied to sort objects by time within the groups. This resolves the issue where objects within temporal groupings were not sorted correctly.