# Release v6.16.0 (2024-12-12)

Published 2024-12-12 15:09:06Z

* [fylr\_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.16.0/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr\_v6.16.0\_darwin\_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.16.0/fylr_v6.16.0_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr\_v6.16.0\_darwin\_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.16.0/fylr_v6.16.0_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr\_v6.16.0\_linux\_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.16.0/fylr_v6.16.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr\_v6.16.0\_windows\_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.16.0/fylr_v6.16.0_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### New

* **File previews**: Support `avif` image format. \[663b8a1be]

### Improved

* **fylr backup**: Refactored `--continue`. Get rid of the progress.json, include full state in `manifest.json`. Removed `--size` parameter to simplify export. Payloads are added to the manifest only if they have been fully written to disk. `--continue` is checking the existing payload and gets the state from the m. Also add total runtime information to manifest containing accumulated timings for each backup run (if `--continue` is used). \[cfd8fc83]
* **/inspect/files**: Lift `leave_on_remote` requirement. The `copy_mode_produce` action would only remote children which have `leave_on_remote` set to `true`, but on the other hand run on originals without that flag set. This led to unpredictable behavior while using that action. \[ba3505c6]
* **/inspect/files**: Improved actions & filters. The new action `produce_versions` replaces `produce_local` and allows to re-produce all version for an original. \[ffa7dc17]
* **/inspect/objects**: Added sort by count. \[c3b9ed42]
* **Index**: Speeder indexing with some added caching. \[c3209fcd]
* **System rights**: New `link_sharing` right replaces `deep_link_sharing`. Existing rights are migrated to "link\_sharing=asset\_deep\_links". The new `link_sharing=share_menu` can be used to show the share menu but without deep links. Also in this patch, simplify saved data for system rights. Store only the set rights. \[3144646a]
* **Startup**: Improved **backend registration**. If fylr restarts really quickly without proper shutdown, the backend registration would notice 2 running backends which in that case would be wrong. Fix this by recognizing this case and waiting 20 seconds before deleting stale backend (in which case we delete the killed fylr backend).
* **Open API Documentation**: Improved documentation system, endpoint `/eas` is documented. \[46ffabe8]
* **Janitor**: If files get deleted, add filename to the event info. \[46ffabe8]
* **/api/eas**: Improved compilation of `original_filename` by detecting Windows style filenames. \[46ffabe8]
* **POST /api/put|rput**: Allow manual versions only for originals where `produce_versions` is `false`. This API change seems sensible. Before we would allow manual versions for originals which have `produce_versions` set to `true`. \[46ffabe8]
* **/inspect/migration**: Various improvements to the output of the migrations. \[3fcee3ca]
* **POST /api/user**: When un-archiving a user, set `last_seen_at` to the current time. This prevents the janitor from archiving a user right after the un-archive, only because that user had not logged in since. \[ff761a5d]
* **File produce**: Support full exec server replacements for plugins. If a file production is done by a plugin, replace `%info.json%` and other standard replacement fields. \[d8dfdea4]

### Fixed

* **fylr restore**: Do not upload versions if `--upload-versions` is not set. The fixed bug caused the restore process to upload version even if the cmd flag was unset. \[d88fa1b1]
* **POST /api/db**: Fixed updates for `geo_json` columns. \[394a1ed2]
* **/inspect/files**: Fixed column `Remote Url` output. This was always shown as set. \[46ffabe8]
* **POST /api/schema**: Allows POST `api/schema` for system right `system.datamodel` level commit (was only allowed for development before). \[c8601de]
* **Locking**: Fixed a bug which resulted in a lot of useless locking and rows in the `lock` table. This only happened on older installations. \[6aa5342d]
* **/api/export**: Write metadata only to supported files. This fixes downloading of `PPTX` files with a metadata profile (which is unsupported). \[e749762b]

## Frontend

### New

* **Workflows Manager**: Added support for "Unknown Actions." If a workflow action isn't supported by the frontend, it's now shown as "Unknown action" while preserving its underlying data. Previously, unsupported actions would result in data loss.
* **Change Owner Action**: Added support for the "Change Owner" action in workflow actions.
* **Rights**: Introduced support for two new configurable permissions: `link_sharing=share_menu` and `linksharing=asset_deep_links`.
* **Nested Subsearches**: Added frontend support for nested subsearches within the expert search, allowing multiple subsearches in a nested field.

### Improved

* **ListViewEditTree**: Enhanced ListView functionality by allowing the header to be locked (preventing resizing) directly from the code.
* **Detail-Sidebar / History Browser**: Adjusted overflow and minimum widths for draggable containers to prevent detail panels from scrolling out of view and becoming inaccessible.
* **Collection Manager**: Improved how results are displayed when filtering collections in the quick access panels. The hierarchy is now displayed up to the searched objects, and when a filtered node is closed and reopened, the full list of children is loaded instead of only the filtered results.
* **DateTime**: Improved rendering of AD dates and removed leading zeros from negative years if `avoid_bc_convertion` is configured.

### Fixed

* **Virtual Top Level**: Fixed an issue preventing the last record from appearing in the search list when the virtual top level was visible in the Search popover.
* **Tag Manager**: Corrected CSS issues in the Tag Manager.
* **Scheduler Editor**: Addressed a bug causing fields not to display correctly if the saved data resulted from an ez5 migration.
* **Workflows Manager**: Fixed column layout issues in the workflow manager.
* **Subsearches**: Fixed a bug where removing one subsearch from multiple nested subsearches in the expert search would remove them all.
* **Event Manager**: Fixed an issue with the button that displays an asset in events referencing assets.
