
# Release v6.13.1

Published 2024-10-02 11:22:34Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.13.1/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.13.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.13.1/fylr_v6.13.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.13.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.13.1/fylr_v6.13.1_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.13.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.13.1/fylr_v6.13.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.13.1_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.13.1/fylr_v6.13.1_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Improved

* **/api/suggest**: Add `count` to `suggestion.fields` response to reflect the number of matched objects. [3b78156bd]

### Fixed

* **/api/eas**: This release brings improved **IIIF** and **Zoom** URLs which include the object's UUID to support rights management in situations where the file is inside a reverse nested. Affected instances need a re-index. This change adds new endpoints to `/api/eas/zoom` and `/api/eas/iiif` which can now include a path segment `obj_uuid` followed by the UUID of the object holding the file. This fixed deep link URLs for **IIIF**. [8fdee074a]

* **/api/search**: Omit virtual root entry in aggregations of type `linked_object`. With this change poly-hierarchical objects inside the virtual root will not generate a facet for the virtual root any more. [c6e6c6d69]

* **/api/suggest**: Fix filtering out tokens which do not match the current field list, if no `pool_ids` are given. [3b78156bd]

* **/api/db**: Fixed `match_merge` in the matching part for localized columns and sub nested columns. Now we only match the left side of the match, so localized fields only need to match one term in one language. For sub nested, only the delivered columns need to match and not all. [2696f6d4d]

## Frontend

### New
* **Nested Match and Replace**: We have introduced a new mode for editing nested fields in the group editor. This new mode is called “Match and replace” and allows substitutions in specific nested elements. This mode adds two columns: one to search for the nested element to be modified and another to enter the data to be replaced in the nested element.

### Improved
* **AND/OR Switch**: The AND/OR switch will no longer be displayed unless these modes are actually usable. This prevents the switch from appearing in filters where it did not make sense to have it.
* **CSS**: General CSS corrections have been made throughout the application.

### Fixed
* **Root Element for Poly Hierarchies**: Fixed display issues of the virtual root element in poly hierarchies.
* **Filter Panel**: Fixed a bug where the “Show more” button was not displayed correctly in hierarchical filters.
* **Nested Table**: Fixed a bug where complex nested table structures were rendered without field names.