
# Release v6.11.2

Published 2024-06-21 13:41:53Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.11.2/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.11.2_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.11.2/fylr_v6.11.2_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.11.2_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.11.2/fylr_v6.11.2_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.11.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.11.2/fylr_v6.11.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.11.2_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.11.2/fylr_v6.11.2_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Important

* See the `Fixed` section, some instances may require a re-index.

### New

* **CRW format**: Support Canon Raw CRW format.
* **/inspect/files**: Add action `Resync with metadata`. This does what the `Resync` action before did, re-calculation of metadata. Now, the `Resync` action skips that step (unless no metadata is there) to save time during the re-sync.

### Improvement

* **/inspect/pools**: Output created and updated timestamps.
* **fylr convert**: New `-r` parameter to overwrite existing file.
* **fylr convert**: Support resizing of small `AI` and `SVG` files. Affected files need a re-sync via `/inspect/files`.
* **fylr metadata**: Improve reading of `width` and `height` for `AI` and `SVG` images. Affected files need a re-sync via `/inspect/files`.

### Fixed

* **Indexing of pools**: Fixed for pools which have an updated timestamp set to '0000-01-01 00:00:00'. This was a regression from `6.11.0` where such a zero time was rendered as `""` which caused indexer parsing problems. A re-index of affected instances is required.
* **Indexing of custom data types**: Fixed a case where a `text` with value `null` caused objects to not being indexed. A re-index of affected instances is required.
* **WebDAV**: Support Mac Finder & Windows Explorer for instances with `https` and **HTTP Basic Authentication** enabled.

## Frontend

### New

* **AND / OR Filters**: The ability to choose AND or OR modifiers in the filter panel has been added, allowing searches to be filtered using OR statements.

### Improvement

* **Reconnecting Alert**: The reconnection alert has been improved for when the frontend loses connection with the backend and the event poller is configured to use stream connections
* **Table View**: Corrections have been made to how the Result Table View updates elements when an update event is received from the server, improving usability issues when using the Result Table View.

### Fixed

* **Asset Browser Zoomer**: Fixed an issue that prevented the zoom option from being used on vector2d type assets.
* **Collection Plugins**: Numerous corrections have been made in the handling of collection plugins when using a collection as a hotfolder.
* **Base Config**: Corrected how default values are displayed for multi-input fields in the base config.
* **Sort by Changelog**: Fixed a bug that caused an error when sorting a search with multiple object types using the changelog as the sort filter.