
# Release v6.12.2

Published 2024-09-18 10:27:11Z

* [fylr_checksums.txt](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.12.2/fylr_checksums.txt)
* [fylr_v6.12.2_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.12.2/fylr_v6.12.2_darwin_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.12.2_darwin_arm64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.12.2/fylr_v6.12.2_darwin_arm64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.12.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.12.2/fylr_v6.12.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz)
* [fylr_v6.12.2_windows_amd64.zip](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/fylr-releases/v6.12.2/fylr_v6.12.2_windows_amd64.zip)

## Server

### Improved

* **/api/search**: Implement `include` for term aggregations. This feature was missing in **fylr**. [0aabc41a]
* **Go 1.23**: Update **fylr** build to use Go 1.23. [dc10264f2] [be6e80481] [1bba8d535]
* **fylr.yml**: Support `fylr.db.init.configFile` together with `fylr.db.init.config`. Before these were mutually exclusive. [a3d6a124]

### Fixed

*  **/api/search**: Do not use `timezone` to modify searched dates. When searching "2024" we did offset that into the given timezone of the search, essentially searching "2023-31-12 23:00" - "2024-31-12 23: 00" which led to unexpected results, given the fact that dates like "2024" are stored as UTC ranges in the **fylr** database and index. [059f162b]
* **/api/eas?collection**: Fixed parallel uploads. When uploading in parallel into one collection relying on _detect series_, **fylr** would create multiple   objects instead of only one (with nested) if files would arrive in parallel. This patch locks the collection before adding files and with that, we make sure that the series detection works within one object even if the files arrive in parallel. [eb96f78e]

## Webfrontend

### Fixed

* **Filter Panel**: Numerous fixes have been made related to the filter panel. Major bugs related to the OR operator and the use of hierarchical filters have been resolved. It is now possible to correctly filter by child filters using the OR operator.
* **Filter Count**: Bugs have been fixed in filter counting when the OR operator is used.
* **Collections**: A bug has been fixed where the collection count was not updating correctly.
* **Image Variants**: A bug has been fixed where an error occurred on the frontend when trying to upload variants in an EAS field.